ELK GROVE VILLAGE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 3914, passed 10-14-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
***** ORDINANCE NO. 3941 *****
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3, OF THE VILLAGE CODE RELATED TO LIQUOR
CONTROL FOR THE VILLAGE OF ELK GROVE VILLAGE,
ILLINOIS____________________________________________________________________                                                         
 
WHEREAS, Section 6(a) of Article VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of
Illinois provides that any municipality which has a population of more than
25,000 is a home rule unit, and the Village of Elk Grove Village (the
“Village”), Cook and DuPage Counties, Illinois, with a population in excess of
25,000 is, therefore, a home rule unit and, pursuant to the provisions of said
Section 6(a) of Article VII, may exercise any power and perform any function
pertaining to its government and affairs, including, but not limited to, the
power to establish business and license regulations regarding liquor control
within the Village; and
WHEREAS, the Village Code of Elk Grove Village (the “Village Code”) establishes
certain regulations regarding liquor control within the Village; and
WHEREAS, the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village (the “Corporate
Authorities”) are committed to protecting the health and safety of Village
residents, as well as maintaining the peace in the community; and
WHEREAS, in support of these goals, the Corporate Authorities have determined
that it is necessary, advisable and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents to amend Title 3, Chapter 3 of the Village Code in relation to
the control of liquor; and
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Elk Grove Village, Counties of Cook and DuPage, Illinois as follows:
Section 1: The recitals set forth above and all exhibits attached to this
Ordinance are incorporated into this Section as if fully set forth herein.
 
Section 2: Title 3, Chapter 3, Section 10 is amended as follows (deletions
stricken and additions underlined):
 
3-3-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
A. Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on any premises licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor, provided that this Section shall not apply to the
following:
1. Off track betting facilities as established pursuant to Section 3-3-13 of
this Chapter.
2. Video gaming establishments as set forth in Section 3-17-1 et seq., of this
Title.
B. Improper Exhibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform, or for
any licensee or manager or agent of the licensee to permit any employee,
entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance or
exhibition on the licensed premises which:
1. Exposes their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
2. Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic hair
region; or
3. Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof.
 
C. Manager’s attendance required. An owner, partner, corporate officer or
approved manager meeting the same requirements must be present on the premises
licensed under this chapter during all business hours. In addition to any other
penalty imposed for violations of this chapter, a minimum fine of $250.00 and a
maximum fine of $750.00 shall be imposed for violations of this section.
 D.  Over-service prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail
liquor dealer’s license to sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any
intoxicated person. In addition to any other penalty imposed for violations of
this chapter, a minimum fine of $250.00 and a maximum fine of $750.00 shall be
imposed for violations of this section.
 
 
E. Disorderly conduct/breach of the peace.
(a)   No person licensed under this Chapter shall permit any violation of this
Chapter and Disorderly Conduct as described in Section 6-6-1-1 or violation of
any law or ordinance on or about the licensed premises.
(b)   The licensee, his, her or its agents or employees shall immediately
report to the Elk Grove Village Police Department any disorderly conduct and/or
breach of the peace or other criminal activity being conducted or occurring on
the licensed premises and shall in all ways cooperate with the Elk Grove
Village Police Department in any investigation arising from those activities.
(c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed for violations of this chapter,
a minimum fine of $250.00 and a maximum fine of $750.00 shall be imposed for
violations of this section.
 
 
Section 3: That the Village Clerk is authorized to publish this Ordinance in
pamphlet form.
   Section 4: In the event a conflict exists between the terms of this
Ordinance and any other ordinance or resolution of the Village, the terms of
this Ordinance shall govern.
   Section 5: This Ordinance and every provision thereof shall be considered
severable. If any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, provision,
section, or part of this Ordinance is found to be void, unconstitutional, or
otherwise unenforceable, all remaining portions of this Ordinance not so
declared void, unconstitutional, or unenforceable shall remain in full force
and effect.
   Section 6: This Ordinance shall be in effect immediately from and after its
passage and approval in the manner provided by law. The provisions of the Code
amended herein shall be reprinted with the changes.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VOTE:   AYES: _____ NAYS: _____ ABSENT: _____
 
   PASSED this ___26 th ___ day of May 2026.
 
   APPROVED this _____ day of May 2026.
 
 
 
 
                  APPROVED:
 
 
                                 
                  Mayor Craig B. Johnson
                  Village of Elk Grove Village
 
ATTEST:
 
 
               
Jennifer S. Mahon, Village Clerk
 
PUBLISHED in pamphlet form this _______ day of May 2026.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
***** ORDINANCE NO. 3942 *****
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A FINAL PLAT OF RESUBDIVISION, GRANTING A SPECIAL USE
PERMIT FOR A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT, AND APPROVING PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT 600 EAST ELK GROVE BOULEVARD (TONNE GROVE)         
 
WHEREAS, the Village of Elk Grove Village (the “Village”) is a home rule unit
of local government organized and existing under Article VII, Section 6 of the
Illinois Constitution of 1970 and, as such, may exercise any power and perform
any function pertaining to its government and affairs, including the regulation
of land use, zoning, and subdivision of property within its corporate limits;
and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its home rule authority, the Illinois Municipal Code, and
other applicable law, the Village has adopted the Elk Grove Village Zoning Code
(the “Zoning Code”) and Subdivision Regulations to regulate the use and
development of land within the Village; and
WHEREAS, Section 5 of the Zoning Code authorizes the Mayor and Board of
Trustees of the Village (collectively, the “Village Board”), following a public
hearing before the Plan Commission of the Village (the “Plan Commission”) and
receipt of the Plan Commission’s recommendation, to approve a Planned
Development as a Special Use when the applicable standards of the Zoning Code
are satisfied; and
WHEREAS, the real property commonly known as 600 East Elk Grove Boulevard, Elk
Grove Village, Illinois, and legally described in EXHIBIT A attached hereto and
incorporated herein (the "Property"), is located within the R-3 Single Family
Residence Zoning District; and
WHEREAS, Tonne Grove LLC (the “Petitioner”) submitted petitions requesting (i)
approval of a Final Plat of Resubdivision to subdivide the Property from one
(1) lot into twenty (20) lots together with the dedication of a public roadway
connecting Love Street to Tonne Road, substantially in the form attached hereto
as EXHIBIT B, and (ii) approval of a Planned Development as a Special Use to
permit development of the Property in accordance with the Planned Development
Regulations, dated June 22, 2026, attached hereto as EXHIBIT C; and
WHEREAS, on June 22, 2026, the Plan Commission conducted a public hearing on
the petitions after notice as required by law, received evidence and testimony
from the Petitioner, Village staff, and interested persons, and thereafter
recommended approval of the requested Final Plat of Resubdivision and Planned
Development, subject to the conditions set forth in the Plan Commission's
Findings of Fact and Recommendation attached hereto as EXHIBIT D; and
WHEREAS, the Village Board, after having reviewed the petitions, the proposed
Final Plat of Resubdivision, the Planned Development Regulations, the Findings
of Fact and Recommendation of the Plan Commission, and evidence presented at
the public hearing, finds that approval of the Final Plat of Resubdivision, the
Planned Development as a Special Use, and the Planned Development Regulations
is consistent with the purposes of the Zoning Code and Subdivision Regulations
and is in the best interests of the Village and its residents;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Elk Grove Village, Counties of Cook and DuPage, Illinois as follows:
Section 1. INCORPORATION OF RECITALS. The recitals set forth above are hereby
found to be true and correct and are incorporated into this Ordinance as if
fully set forth herein.
Section 2. APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT OF RESUBDIVISION. The Mayor and Board of
Trustees hereby find and determine that it is necessary, advisable, and in the
best interests of the Village to approve the Plat of Resubdivision for the
Tonne Grove Resubdivision, attached hereto as EXHIBIT B. The Final Plat of
Resubdivision is hereby approved, subject to such changes as may be approved by
the Village President, Village Attorney, and Village Engineer, provided such
changes do not materially alter the approved subdivision layout, easements,
dedications, or other material provisions of the Final Plat.
Section 3: GRANT OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The Mayor and Board
of Trustees hereby grant a Special Use Permit for a Planned Development for the
Property, subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements of this Ordinance.
Section 4. APPROVAL OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS. The Tonne Grove Planned
Development Regulations, dated June 22, 2026, attached hereto as EXHIBIT C and
incorporated herein by this reference, are hereby approved and adopted as the
development regulations governing the Property. The Property shall be
developed, used, and maintained in substantial conformity with the Planned
Development Regulations, the approved Final Plat of Resubdivision attached as
EXHIBIT B, and the conditions of approval contained in this Ordinance. Except
as expressly modified by the Planned Development Regulations, all applicable
provisions of the Village Code, including the Elk Grove Village Zoning Code and
the Village's Subdivision Regulations, shall remain in full force and effect
and shall apply to the development and use of the Property.
Section 4. AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AND RECORD. The Village President is hereby
authorized and directed to execute the Final Plat of Subdivision attached
hereto as EXHIBIT B following approval of any authorized non-substantive
changes. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to attest to the
Final Plat and this Ordinance and to cause the Final Plat of Resubdivision,
this Ordinance and such other documents as are necessary to implement this
Ordinance to be recorded with the Office of the Cook County Clerk, Recording
Division.
Section 5. FURTHER ACTIONS AUTHORIZED. The Village President, Village Clerk,
Village Attorney, Village Engineer, and other officers, employees, and agents
of the Village are hereby authorized and directed to take all actions necessary
or reasonably required to carry out and give effect to the intent of this
Ordinance.
Section 6. RATIFICATION. All prior actions taken by the officers, employees,
and agents of the Village with respect to the subject matter of this Ordinance
are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved.
Section 7. SEVERABILITY. If any provision, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
of this Ordinance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 8. REPEALER. All ordinances, resolutions, or parts thereof in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
Section 9. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
   
VOTE:   AYES: 4 NAYS: 0 ABSENT: 2
 
PASSED this 14 th day of July 2026
APPROVED this 14 th day of July 2026
      
       APPROVED:
         
                                 
                  Mayor Craig B. Johnson
                  Village of Elk Grove Village
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
               
Jennifer S. Mahon, Village Clerk
 
 
 
 
PUBLISHED in pamphlet form this _______ day of July 2026.
EXHIBIT A
(LEGAL DESCRIPTION)
 
 
EXHBIIT B
(PLAT OF RESUBDIVISION)
 
 
EXHIBIT C
(PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS)
EXHIBIT D
(PLAN COMMISSION FINDINGS OF FACT AND RECOMMENDATION)
 
 
 
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE
   Chapter
      
1.    OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
      
2 .   SAVING CLAUSE
      
3 .   DEFINITIONS
      
4 .   OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
      
5 .   MAYOR
      
6 .   OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
      
7 .   VILLAGE APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
8 .   VILLAGE FINANCES
      
9 .   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
10 .   STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
      
11 .   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 1: OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
Section
   
1-1-1   Title
   
1-1-2   Acceptance
   
1-1-3   Amendments
   
1-1-4   Code Alterations
   
1-1-5   Copies of Code
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Code of the Village.
This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Elk Grove
Village Village Code and it is hereby published by authority of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this Village Code by title in any legal document.
§ 1-1-2 ACCEPTANCE.
   The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code.
§ 1-1-3 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code.
   Any addition or amendments to this Code, when passed in such form as to
indicate the intention of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to make the same a
part of this Code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this Code so that a
reference to the Municipal Code of Elk Grove Village shall be understood to
include them.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a separate book containing every amendment or
addition passed to this Code, with a reference on each copy of such amendment
or addition as to the place in the record of ordinances where the original
ordinance may be found. These records shall be kept in addition to the record
of ordinances which the Clerk is required to keep by statute.
§ 1-1-4 CODE ALTERATIONS.
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the
Clerk. Any person having in their custody an official copy of the Village Code
shall make every effort to maintain said Code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. They shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to them or made available to them through the office of
the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and
shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of
the Village Board.
§ 1-1-5 COPIES OF CODE.
   Distribution of Copies: All of the printed copies of this Code belonging to
the Village shall be deposited with the Clerk.
CHAPTER 2: SAVING CLAUSE
Section
   
1-2-1   Repeal of General Ordinances
   
1-2-2   Public Utility Ordinances
   
1-2-3   Court Proceedings
   
1-2-4   Severability Clause
§ 1-2-1 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; zoning ordinances and all special ordinances.
§ 1-2-2 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public
ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities,
shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue
of the preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions
for such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
§ 1-2-3 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done; any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred; or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action
now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code.
§ 1-2-4 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective.
CHAPTER 3: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
1-3-1   Construction of Words
   
1-3-2   Definitions, General
   
1-3-3   Catchlines
§ 1-3-1 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   Whenever any word used in any section of this Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only,
or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as
well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where
the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by title only,
this shall be construed as though followed by the words, “of the Village of Elk
Grove Village”. Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village Officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Elk Grove Village”.
   The word “ordinance” contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed to the content of this Code to “title”, “chapter”, “section” and/or
“subsection” or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Village’s ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this
Code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of the Mayor
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
§ 1-3-2 DEFINITIONS, GENERAL.
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village.
   CODE: The Municipal Code of Elk Grove Village, Illinois, and amendments
thereto.
   COUNTIES: The Counties of Cook and DuPage, State of Illinois.
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the Village shall begin on May 1 of each
year and end on April 30 of the following year.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR: The Mayor of the Village may be referred to as “Mayor” or “President”
of the Village.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICER, APPOINTED: Whenever reference is made in this code to an Appointed
Officer, this shall refer to the positions of Village Manager, Fire Chief,
Police Chief, Village Clerk and Village Attorney.
   OFFICER, ELECTED: An elected official for the Village of Elk Grove Village,
which shall include the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   OFFICIAL TIME: Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of Village business; except, that from two o’clock (2:00) A.M. on
the second Sunday in March of each year, the official time shall be advanced
one hour until two o’clock (2:00) A.M. of the first Sunday in November, at
which time the official time shall return to Central Standard Time. All clocks
and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other premises maintained
by or at the expense of the Village shall be set and run at the official time
prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
   STATE: The State of Illinois.
   STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such buildings or land, whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village, Counties of Cook and DuPage,
State of Illinois.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: See definition of Mayor.
   WHOLESALER: In all cases where the words “wholesaler” or “wholesale dealer”
are used in this Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, they shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale, as distinguished
from a retail dealer who sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or by their proper mark, electronic signature or
facsimile signature.
§ 1-3-3 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
CHAPTER 4: GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
1-4-1   General Penalty
   
1-4-2   Application of Provisions
   
1-4-3   Liability of Officers
   
1-4-4   Offenses
   
1-4-4-1   Miscellaneous Offenses
   
1-4-4-2   Health and Related Offenses
   
1-4-4-3   Fire Prevention Code Offenses
   
1-4-4-4   Settlement of Penalties by the Department of Community Development
   
1-4-5   Village Jail
§ 1-4-1 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this Code the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall
be no fine or penalty declared for such breach, any person who shall be
convicted of any such breach shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and every day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
§ 1-4-2 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecutor may elect under
which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   Whenever in this Code a minimum but not maximum fine or penalty is imposed,
the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum exceeding the
minimum fine or penalty but not exceeding seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00).
   In case of amendment of any section of this Code containing the provisions
for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so provided in
such other section shall be held to relate to the amended section or the
amending section, whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not, unless
such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
§ 1-4-3 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this Code designating the duties of any Officer, employee or
any appointed board member or commissioner shall be so construed as to make
such Officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure
to perform such duty, unless the intention of the Board of Trustees to impose
such fine or penalty on such Officer or employee is specifically and clearly
expressed in the section creating the duty.
§ 1-4-4 OFFENSES.
§ 1-4-4-1 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   A.   Parking Violations: Whenever a peace officer is authorized to arrest a
person without a warrant or otherwise observes a violation of parking
regulations, said officer shall issue a “P” ticket in such form as authorized
by the Village, setting forth the nature of the violation and the date, time
and location wherein the violation occurred and shall issue same by personal
delivery to the vehicle operator, if present, or attaching same to the motor
vehicle.
   The registered owner or operator of any vehicle who receives a “P” ticket
may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, settle and
compromise the penalty arising from same by paying the stated amount due to the
Finance Department, or contest the violation by mail, subject to the procedures
outlined in Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, the recipient of a “P” ticket may choose to contest the
ticket at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise a “P” ticket
within thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the
ticket at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
   B.   Certain Nonparking Vehicular Offenses and Other Miscellaneous Offenses:
Whenever a peace officer is authorized to arrest a person without a warrant or
otherwise observes a violation of any of the hereinafter designated sections of
this Code or Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., said
officer may issue a “C” ticket in such form as authorized by the Chief of
Police, which “C” ticket may be settled and compromised as hereinafter set
forth. The “C” ticket shall set forth the nature of the violation and the date,
time and location wherein the violation occurred and shall be personally
delivered to the alleged violator along with a notice advising the violator of
the settlement procedure and costs associated therewith.
   The “C” ticket shall apply to violations of certain sections of the Illinois
Vehicle Code authorized by the presiding judge of the Third District and to
violations of the following sections of this Code:
 
Section               Offenses
   Title 6, Chapter   Village vehicle license
 
   6-3-1 - Illinois Vehicle Code sections, beginning with “625 ILC” and
completed with a chapter/section suffix as follows:
 
5/3-413                   Display of registration plates, registration stickers
5/3-701                   Operation of vehicles without evidence of
                          registration
5/6-101                   Valid driver’s license or permit
5/6-116                   Notice of change of address or name
5/12-201 through 5/12-902 Equipment violations
5/13-111                  Operation without certificate of safety attached
 
   Unless the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person issued a “C”
ticket may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, settle
and compromise the penalty arising from same by paying the stated amount due to
the Finance Department or contest the violation by mail, subject to the
procedures outlined in Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, any person issued a “C” ticket may contest the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise the ticket within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
   C.   Other Offenses: Whenever a peace officer observes a violation where the
offender is not present at the time of the violation or where the situation is
such that the issuance of a citation requiring the posting of a bond is
impractical, then and in that event, the officer may issue or cause the
issuance of a “C” ticket to the alleged offender.
   Unless the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person issued a “C”
ticket may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, settle
and compromise the penalty arising from same by paying the stated amount due to
the Finance Department or contest the violation by mail, subject to the
procedures outlined in Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, any person issued a “C” ticket may contest the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise the ticket within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
   D.   Impoundment of Vehicles:
      1.   Violation: Any vehicle, the owner or owners of which have a total of
three (3) or more unpaid citations for parking violations or violations in
which a “C” ticket was given, charging that such vehicle or other vehicles
owned by the same owner or owners was parked, stopped or driving in violation
of any ordinance of the Village, shall be deemed a public nuisance, and the
Police Department or any other Agents of the Village assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove, cause to be removed or impound in place the
offending vehicle at the sole cost and expense of the owner or owners thereof.
      2.   Disposition of Removed Vehicle: The disposition of removed vehicles
shall be in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code pertaining to abandoned
property.
      3.   Presumption of Owner’s Responsibility: The registered owner of a
vehicle, the owner of which has three (3) or more citations for parking
violations, or violations in which a “C” ticket was given shall be presumed to
be the owner and the operator of the vehicle at the time the citations were
issued and shall be responsible for the offense and the impoundment, and all
costs associated therewith.
      4.   Release of Vehicle: Any vehicle removed or impounded in place
pursuant to this Section will be released to its lawful owner upon the showing
of adequate evidence of the right to possession and upon the payment of all
accrued fines and costs for each outstanding unpaid citation or judgment
against a person or persons registered as the owner of the vehicle. In lieu of
payment of the amount due on any unpaid citation, the owner may deposit a bond
in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for their appearance before the
Village’s Administrative Adjudicator to answer said violation or violations. A
release must be signed by an officer of the Police Department of the Village.
§ 1-4-4-2 HEALTH AND RELATED OFFENSES.
   A.   Authorization: The Department of Community Development, through its
duly appointed officers, inspectors and employees, are hereby authorized to
issue citations, notices to appear in court or adjudication or complaints for
violations of Title 3, Chapter 5, Article A and Title 4, Chapters 2, 3, 4 and 5
of this Code.
   B.   Settlement/Opportunity to Contest: Unless the violation is issued as
“must appear”, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may, within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, elect to settle and
compromise the penalty arising from same by paying to the Finance Department at
the Village Hall the following settlement amounts:
 
Violation                                                         Penalty
Title 3, Chapter 5, Article A (Food Service Sanitation Ordinance) $50.00
Title 4, Chapter 2 (Nuisances)                                    $50.00
Title 4, Chapter 3 (Contagious Diseases)                          $50.00
Title 4, Chapter 4 (Garbage and Refuse)                           $50.00
Title 4, Chapter 5 (Plants and Weeds)                             $50.00
 
   Unless the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person upon whom a
citation or notice is served may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of
the issuance, contest the ticket by mail, subject to the procedures outlined in
Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may
contest the ticket at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined
in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise the ticket within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
   C.   Enforcement of Provisions: The provisions of this Section shall not
prohibit or waive the right of the Village Police Department to enforce the
provisions of the applicable sections of the Health Code included in the
settlement provisions herein.
§ 1-4-4-3 FIRE PREVENTION CODE OFFENSES.
   A.   Authorization: The Fire Department of the Village, through its duly
appointed officers (see Title 5, Chapter 1 of this Code), inspectors and
employees, is hereby authorized to issue citations, or notice to appear before
the Village’s Administrative Adjudicator.
   B.   Settlement/Opportunity to Contest: Unless the violation is issued as
“must appear”, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may, within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, elect to settle and
compromise the penalty arising from same by paying to the Finance Department at
the Village Hall the following settlement amount:
 
Violation          Penalty
Title 5, Chapter 3 $50.00
 
   Unless the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person upon whom a
citation or notice is served may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of
the issuance, contest the ticket by mail, subject to the procedures outlined in
Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may
contest the ticket at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined
in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise the ticket within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
§ 1-4-4-4 SETTLEMENT OF PENALTIES BY THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   A.   Authorization: The Department of Community Development of the Village,
through its Director and duly appointed officers, inspectors and employees, is
hereby authorized to issue citations, notices to appear in court or complaints
for all the violations of Title 8, Chapters 7, 8, 9 and 10 of this Code and
such other codes, concerning the development of land and building and
engineering regulations within the Village previously adopted by reference by
the Village. (See Title 8 of this Code.)
   B.   Settlement/Opportunity to Contest: Unless the violation is issued as
“must appear”, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may, within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, elect to settle and
compromise the penalty arising from same by paying to the Finance Department at
the Village Hall the following settlement amount:
Due Date
Penalty
$50.00
   Unless the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person upon whom a
citation or notice is served may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of
the issuance, contest the ticket by mail, subject to the procedures outlined in
Section
1-11-13. Alternatively, any person upon whom a citation or notice is served may
contest the ticket at the scheduled hearing, subject to the procedures outlined
in Section
1-11-13.
   As the stated fine amount in the ticket is the minimum fine established for
each violation, any person who does not settle and compromise the ticket within
thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance, or who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing, may be subject to additional fines and/or fees
detailed in Section
1-4-1, Section
1-11-13 and/or the relevant penalties set forth for the violation.
§ 1-4-5 VILLAGE JAIL.
   A.   Establishment: The place in the Village heretofore established and used
as the jail, or any other place which may be hereafter used for that purpose,
is hereby declared to be the Village jail.
   B.   Keeper of the Jail: The Chief of Police shall be the keeper of the jail
and shall have custody over all persons confined therein and of all property
pertaining thereto. (See also Subsection
6-1-3B2 of this Code.)
   C.   Prisoners:
      1.   The jail shall be used for the incarceration of all persons arrested
for violating any laws of the State of Illinois, the United States or for
violating any Village ordinance until such person shall be lawfully brought
before a judge for a hearing or until such person shall be lawfully transferred
to some other place of incarceration or otherwise lawfully released.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner
held in the jail without the permission of the Chief of Police or the police
officer in charge.
   D.   Escape: It shall be unlawful for any person to escape or attempt to
escape or to assist any prisoner to escape or attempt to escape from jail.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense unless such violation is classified as
a misdemeanor or a felony as set forth in 730 ILCS and in such event said
person shall be subject to such penalties as are provided by law.
CHAPTER 5: MAYOR
Section
   
1-5-1   Election; Term of Office
   
1-5-2   Bond; Oath
   
1-5-3   Salary
   
1-5-4   Duties
   
1-5-5   Mayor of the Board
   
1-5-6   Deputy Mayor
   
1-5-7   Commencement of Term
§ 1-5-1 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years, and shall be the
Mayor of the Board of Trustees, as provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10, 5/
5-2-16). The term “Mayor” shall also include “Village President” as used in any
ordinance, resolution, motion or other Section of this Code previously adopted
or as used in any action of the Corporate Authorities.
§ 1-5-2 BOND; OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Mayor shall give a bond with
sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon their
faithful performance of duties, in the amount equal to the bond required per
Section
1-7C-2 of this Code. They shall take the oath of office as prescribed by
statute (65 ILCS 5/5-3-9).
§ 1-5-3 SALARY.
   The salary for the Office of Mayor shall be based upon the number of terms
and years served in that office whether by general election or election by the
Board of Trustees in the case of a vacancy. The compensation for Mayor shall be
as follows, payable in twenty-six (26) equal installments:
   First term of office:
 
Year 1 $8,000.00
Year 2 $9,000.00
Year 3 $10,000.00
Year 4 $11,000.00
 
   Second term of office:
 
Year 1 $12,000.00
Year 2 $14,000.00
Year 3 $16,000.00
Year 4 $18,000.00
 
   Third term of office:
 
Year 1 $20,000.00
Year 2 $22,000.00
Year 3 $24,000.00
Year 4 $26,000.00
 
   Fourth term of office:
 
Year 1 $28,000.00
Year 2 $30,000.00
Year 3 $32,000.00
Year 4 $34,000.00
 
   Fifth term of office:
 
Year 1 $36,000.00
Year 2 $37,000.00
Year 3 $38,000.00
Year 4 $39,000.00
 
   Sixth and subsequent terms of office:
 
$40,000.00 per year
 
   In addition, at the beginning of the second and subsequent terms of office,
the Mayor is eligible to purchase individual employee or family health
insurance coverage as provided to employees of the Village. Such purchase of
insurance shall be at the sole expense of the Mayor who shall be required to
pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the health insurance premium of
the plan selected by the Mayor. Any Mayor purchasing insurance as provided for
herein shall have the ability to purchase such insurance on an uninterrupted
basis until such time as their sixty-fifth (65) birthday. Thereafter, the Mayor
is eligible to purchase the Medicare supplement in effect at the time for
Village employees. If the Mayor discontinues the purchase of insurance after
previously serving in office, then the Mayor is ineligible to purchase
insurance thereafter.
§ 1-5-4 DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Village, and shall
perform all such duties as may be required by statute (65 ILCS 5/5-3-1) or
ordinance. The Mayor shall have general supervision of the Village Manager,
over all of the employees of the Village and shall have the power and authority
to inspect all books and records kept by any Village officer or employee at any
reasonable time.
§ 1-5-5 MAYOR OF THE BOARD.
   The Mayor shall preside over of all regular and special meetings of the
Board of Trustees and at all times when the Board meets as a Committee of the
Whole.
§ 1-5-6 DEPUTY MAYOR.
   There is hereby established the position of Deputy Mayor who shall be a
current sitting Trustee designated by the Mayor in their sole discretion. In
the event the Mayor is unable to attend a regular or special meeting of the
Board or a meeting of the Board as a Committee of the Whole, the Deputy Mayor
shall act as temporary Mayor or Chairperson Pro Tem and preside over the
meetings. In the event the Mayor is incapacitated and unable to perform the
duties of Mayor, the Deputy Mayor shall act as Mayor Pro Tem and perform the
duties of the Mayor until such time as the Mayor recovers and is thus able to
perform the duties of their office. The designation shall be made by a written
submittal by the Mayor to the Village Clerk and can change from time to time by
the Mayor in their sole discretion.
§ 1-5-7 COMMENCEMENT OF TERM.
   The term of the Office of the Mayor shall commence at the second regular
meeting of the Corporate Authorities in the month of May, after receipt of the
official election results from the County Clerk of the regular Municipal
election at which the Mayor was elected.
CHAPTER 6: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
1-6-1   Election; Commencement of Term; Functions; Oath
   
1-6-2   Salary; Health Insurance
   
1-6-3   Meetings of the Board
   
1-6-4   Deciding Vote
   
1-6-5   Passage of Ordinances
   
1-6-6   Rules of Order
§ 1-6-1 ELECTION; COMMENCEMENT OF TERM; FUNCTIONS; OATH.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected from
the Municipality in an at large election to office for a four (4) year term.
The term of office shall commence at the second regular meeting of the
Corporate Authorities in the month of May, after receipt of the regular
Municipal election results at which the Trustees were elected. The Board shall
be the Legislative Department of the Village government and shall perform such
duties and have such powers as may be delegated by statute to it. Members of
the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute.
§ 1-6-2 SALARY; HEALTH INSURANCE.
   A.   Salary: Members of the Board of Trustees shall receive as compensation
the sum of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) per year, payable in twenty-six
(26) equal installments, said rate of compensation to apply to all terms of
office which commence by taking the oath of office on or after May 1, 2009.
   B.   Health Insurance: At the beginning of the second and subsequent terms
of office, each Village Trustee is eligible to purchase individual employee or
family health insurance coverage as provided to employees of the Village. Such
purchase of insurance shall be at the sole expense of the Trustee who shall be
required to pay one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the health insurance
premium of the plan selected by the Trustee. Any Trustee purchasing insurance
as provided for herein, shall have the ability to purchase such insurance on an
uninterrupted basis until such time as their sixty-fifth (65) birthday.
Thereafter, the Trustee is eligible to purchase the Medicare supplement in
effect for Village employees. If the Trustee discontinues the purchase of
insurance after previously serving in office, then the Trustee is ineligible to
purchase insurance thereafter.
§ 1-6-3 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Village Board shall hold its regular meetings at
seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each month,
except that in the months of June, July, August, November and December, there
shall only be one regular meeting at such date or dates established by the
Board. The meeting place of the Board shall be at the Charles J. Zettek
Municipal Complex, 901 Wellington Avenue, in the Village unless otherwise
directed; provided, however, that if the meeting date shall fall on a
recognized legal holiday, the Board shall meet on the following day.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or any
three (3) Trustees, in which event, the Mayor or Trustees calling such meeting
shall advise the Village Clerk of the purpose of such special meeting and the
day and hour thereof, which shall not be fixed at less than three (3) days from
the filing of any such statement. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall prepare
and cause to be served upon the Mayor and each Trustee, at least twenty-four
(24) hours before the time fixed for such meeting, a notice, in writing,
setting forth the purpose of such special meeting and the time and place of
holding the same; however, upon agreement of all Trustees, said prior notice in
writing of a special meeting may be waived.
   C.   Schedule and Notice of Meetings:
      1.   The Village Clerk, on behalf of the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
shall, at the beginning of each calendar year, prepare and make available a
schedule stating the date, time and place of regular meetings of the Board of
Trustees and committees thereof as provided in Subsection
1-6-6I of this Chapter. In addition, the Village Clerk shall post a notice of
all said meetings on the bulletin board in the lobby of the administrative
office building and shall furnish a copy of said notice to all news media
requesting same in accordance with State law.
      2.   The Village Clerk, for and on behalf of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, shall post a notice of any change in any such regular meeting ten
(10) days in advance of the meeting date. All news media requesting notice of
meetings shall be notified.
      3.    In the event a special, rescheduled or reconvened meeting is
called, the Village Clerk shall arrange a public posting on the aforementioned
bulletin board at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to such meeting. This
requirement for posting shall not be necessary when a reconvened meeting is
within twenty-four (24) hours of the original meeting or when the announcement
of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was made at the original
meeting and there is no change in the agenda. All news media requesting notice
of meetings shall be notified as provided by law.
   D.   Meetings Open to Public: Pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act,
all regular or special meetings of the Village Board shall be open to the
public and the Board shall designate employees, officers or members to receive
training on compliance with the act and submit a list of successfully trained
individuals to the Public Access Counselor (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
§ 1-6-4 DECIDING VOTE.
   The Mayor shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except: a)
where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; b) where one-half (1/2)
of the Trustees has voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or motion even
though there is no tie vote; and c) in other instances provided for in the
statutes. In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
Section shall deprive a Deputy Mayor from voting in their capacity as Trustee,
but they shall not be entitled to another vote in their capacity as Deputy
Mayor.
§ 1-6-5 PASSAGE OF ORDINANCES.
   A.   First Reading Rule: All ordinances may be passed without a first
reading of same unless a first reading is requested by any Trustee or by the
Mayor.
   B.   Approval; Veto: All resolutions: 1) which create any liability against
the Village, 2) which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money, or 3) to sell any Village property and all ordinances passed by the
Village Board shall be deposited with the Village Clerk. If the Mayor approves
of them, they shall sign them. Those of which the Mayor disapproves, they shall
return to the Village Board, with written objections, at the next regular
meeting of the Village Board. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance or resolution making an appropriation, and if so,
the remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of
an ordinance or resolution making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance or any specified resolution with written objections within
the designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of the
Mayor’s signature.
   C.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion
specified in the preceding Subsection and every ordinance which is returned to
the Board of Trustees by the Mayor shall be reconsidered by the Board of
Trustees. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees
elected to the Village Board shall agree to pass an ordinance, resolution or
motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then it shall be
effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be
by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
§ 1-6-6 RULES OF ORDER.
   A.   Order of Business: The order of business of the Village Board of
Trustees shall be as follows:
      1.   Call to Order;
      2.   Pledge of Allegiance and Invocation;
      3.   Approval of Minutes of Prior Meeting;
      4.   Mayor & Board of Trustees’ Report;
      5.   Accounts Payable Warrant;
      6.   Consent Agenda;
      7.   Regular Agenda;
      8.   Reports of Standing Committees, Special Committees, Boards,
Commissions and Special Topics;
      10.   Report from the Village Manager;
      11.   Report from the Village Clerk;
      12.   Unfinished Business;
      13.   New Business;
      14.   Public Comment; and
      15.   Adjournment.
   B.   Agenda: The business to be transacted at any meeting shall be upon an
agenda prepared by the Village Manager or their designee. The regular agenda
shall be prepared and distributed on the Wednesday proceeding the regularly
scheduled Tuesday Board Meeting. Addendums to the regular agenda shall be
prepared and distributed no later than forty-eight (48) hours proceeding the
regularly scheduled Tuesday Board Meeting. All Chairs of standing and special
committees shall, not later than Wednesday preceding the regular Village Board
meeting, submit to the Village Manager or their designee the matter or matters
to be acted upon at such regular meetings, and it shall then be the duty of the
Village Manager or their designee to transmit to the Mayor and each Trustee a
copy of the agenda, together with copies of minutes, reports, ordinances and
resolutions, not later than the Friday preceding such regular meeting. The
agenda for special meetings shall consist of the purpose for which such meeting
was called. The agenda for adjourned regular meetings shall conform as near as
may be to those set forth for regular meetings.
   C.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there be
present at such special meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as
were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as provided by
statute (65 ILCS 5/5-3-2, 5-3-3, 5-3-4).
   D.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall
be reduced to writing before being voted upon.
   E.   Addressing Meetings: With the exception of Public Comment, no person
other than the Mayor or a member of the Board shall address that body at any
regular or special meeting except upon consent of a majority of the members
present.
   F.   Suspension of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   G.   Robert’s Rules of Order: “Robert’s Rules of Order” shall govern the
deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
   H.   Quorum: A majority of the Trustees or three (3) Trustees and the Mayor
shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   I.   Committees:
      1.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees
of the Board of Trustees:
      Capital Improvements
      Judiciary, Planning and Zoning
      Personnel
      2.   Special Committees: Special committees shall be created, from time
to time, as directed by the Board of Trustees.
      3.   Composition: All standing and special committees shall consist of
three (3) members each, including the Chairperson, unless the Board shall
otherwise direct.
      4.   Appointment: All committees shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   J.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof; any person
violating the provisions of this Subsection shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense.
CHAPTER 7: VILLAGE APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
1-7-1   Application of Provisions
   
1-7-2   Appointments
   
1-7-3   Terms of Office; Vacancies
   
1-7-4   Oath; Bond
   
1-7-5   Position Classification and Salary Plans
   
1-7-6   Duties
   
1-7-7   Inspection of Records
   
1-7-8   Conservators of the Peace
   
1-7-9   Retirement Benefits
Article A. Village Manager
   
1-7A-1   Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications
   
1-7A-2   Vacancy in Office
   
1-7A-3   Removal from Office
   
1-7A-4   Restrictions on Board Intervention
   
1-7A-5   Bond; Salary
   
1-7A-6   Powers and Duties
   
1-7A-7   Emergencies
   
1-7A-8   Deputy Village Manager
Article B. Village Clerk
   
1-7B-1   Appointment
   
1-7B-2   Bond
   
1-7B-3   Duties
   
1-7B-4   Deputy Clerk
Article C. Village Treasurer
   
1-7C-1   Position
   
1-7C-2   Bond
   
1-7C-3   Duties
   
1-7C-4   Warrants; Transfer of Funds
   
1-7C-5   Special Assessment Funds
   
1-7C-6   Assistant Village Treasurer
Article D. Legal Advisors
   
1-7D-1   Village Attorney
   
1-7D-2   Special Counsel
   
1-7D-3   Village Prosecutor
Cross-reference:
   Village Treasurer, see also Subsection
1-8-1-1A of this Title, Director of Finance shall serve as Treasurer.
§ 1-7-1 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply alike to all Appointed Officers
and employees of the Village, regardless of the time of the creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
§ 1-7-2 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Chief of the Fire and Police Departments, the Village Clerk, Village
Attorney and Village Manager shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
consent and advice of the Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute (65 ILCS
5/3.1-30-5); provided, that all employees shall, in the absence of any
provision to the contrary, be hired by and shall report to the Village Manager.
§ 1-7-3 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Unless otherwise provided for by ordinance, every Appointed Officer of the
Village shall hold office for an indefinite term following their appointment.
In case of a vacancy in any such place, it shall be filled in the same manner
in which original appointments or selections are made in the absence of
provisions to the contrary.
§ 1-7-4 OATH; BOND.
   A.   Oath: Every Appointed Officer of the Village shall, before entering
upon their duties, take the oath prescribed by statute (65 ILCS 5/5-3-9).
   B.   Bond: Every Appointed Officer and employee shall, if required by the
Board of Trustees, upon entering upon the duties of their office, give a bond
in such amount and with such sureties as may be determined by said Board,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of their office or
position.
§ 1-7-5 POSITION CLASSIFICATION AND SALARY PLANS.
   A.   Classification Plan: The Schematic Outline of Occupational Titles,
including a class code and the list of authorized positions, shall constitute
the classification plan, copies of which are on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk. All positions in each class shall be compensated in accordance
with their designated salary plan.
   B.   Compensation Plans: Plans are hereby established to provide proper
compensation for each job. These plans are as follows:
      1.   Merit Pay Plan for non-union executive, administrative, supervisory,
technical and professional employees as adjusted from time to time, and a copy
of which is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk;
      2.   Non-Union General Step Pay Plan for non-supervisory employees as
adjusted from time to time, and a copy of which is on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk;
      3.   Step pay plan as negotiated for unionized employees, and a copy of
which is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk;
      4.   Specific Rate Pay Plan for various positions as outlined in the plan
and adjusted from time to time, and a copy of which is on file in the Office of
the Village Clerk.
   C.   Longevity for Non-Union General Step Pay Plan employees as amended from
time to time and appearing within the most recently adopted Non-Union General
Step Pay Plan;
   D.   Management Enhancement Plan for full-time Merit Pay Plan non-union
employees as amended from time to time and appearing within the most recently
adopted Merit Pay Plan; and
   E.   Management Incentive Program for the Village Manager and employees who
have served in a Department Head (Group IV) position for ten (10) or more
consecutive years as amended from time to time, and a copy of which is on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk.
§ 1-7-6 DUTIES.
   A.   Monies Received; Records: Every Officer of the Village shall, at least
once each month, turn over all money received by them in their official
capacity to the Director of Finance with a statement showing the source from
which the same was received.
   B.   Books and Records to Successor: Every Officer of the Village, upon the
expiration of their term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to their
successor all books and records which may be the property of the Village, and
if no successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of
office, such property shall be delivered to the Village Clerk.
§ 1-7-7 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   All records kept by any Appointed Officer of the Village shall be open to
inspection by the Mayor or any member of the Board of Trustees at all
reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by
statute or ordinance.
§ 1-7-8 CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE.
   Individuals designated by State Statute shall be declared to be Conservators
of the Peace after receiving a certificate to the successful completion of a
training course administered by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards
Board, with such powers to make arrests as are given to Conservators of the
Peace by statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25).
§ 1-7-9 RETIREMENT BENEFITS.
   All Appointed Officers and employees of the Village on the regular payroll,
other than police officers subject to the Police Pension Law (40 ILCS 5/3-101
et seq.) and firefighters subject to the Fire Pension Law, are under the
provisions of the Illinois Municipal Retirement Act (40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.),
and the contribution and payroll deductions prescribed in said Act shall be
made pursuant thereto.
**** ARTICLE A. VILLAGE MANAGER ****
§ 1-7A-1 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Office of the Village Manager is hereby created. The Village Manager
shall be appointed for an indefinite term by majority vote of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees acting jointly. The individual shall be chosen solely on the
basis of their executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to their actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in
respect to the duties of their office hereinafter set forth. At the time of
their appointment, the individual need not be a resident of the Village or the
State, but must establish residency within the Village during the first
eighteen (18) months of office. No Village elected official shall receive such
appointment during the term for which they shall have been elected nor within
one year after the expiration of their term.
§ 1-7A-2 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   Any vacancy in the office of Village Manager shall be filled within sixty
(60) days after the effective date of such vacancy. In the case of a vacancy in
the office of Village Manager or of the absence or disability of the Village
Manager, all powers and duties granted by this Article to the Village Manager
shall be temporarily transferred to the Deputy Village Manager until a
successor Village Manager is appointed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
§ 1-7A-3 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Board of Trustees may remove the Village Manager at any time by a
majority vote of its members. At least thirty (30) days before such removal
becomes effective, the Board of Trustees shall furnish the Village Manager with
a written statement setting forth its intention to remove them and the reasons
therefor. If requested by the Village Manager, the Mayor and Board of Trustees
shall grant them a hearing during this thirty (30) day period.
§ 1-7A-4 RESTRICTIONS ON BOARD INTERVENTION.
   Neither the Mayor nor the Board of Trustees, nor any of its members shall
direct the hiring of any person to, or their removal from office, promotion or
demotion by the Village Manager or any of their subordinates, or in any manner
take part in the hiring or removal of employees in the Village employment.
Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and its
members shall deal with the Municipal service through the Village Manager, and
neither the Mayor nor the Board of Trustees, nor any member thereof shall give
orders to any employee of the Village.
§ 1-7A-5 BOND; SALARY.
   A.   Bond: The Village Manager shall furnish a surety bond in the amount
equal to the bond required per Section
1-7C-2 of this Code to be approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, said
bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of their duties. The premium
of the bond shall be paid by the Village.
   B.   Compensation: The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as
the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall fix from time to time.
§ 1-7A-6 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Village Manager shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the
Village. All departments shall report to the Village Manager, including the
Fire and Police Departments. The Village Manager may head one or more
departments and shall be responsible to the Mayor and Board of Trustees for the
proper administration of all affairs of the Village. To that end, the Village
Manager shall have power and shall be required to:
   A.   Hire, and when necessary for the good of the service, terminate any or
all employees of the Village except as otherwise provided by this Code or the
Illinois Compiled Statutes and relieve from active duty the Fire Chief and the
Police Chief when they deem necessary pending final determination by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees;
   B.   Annually direct and supervise the preparation of the budget and submit
it to the Board of Trustees together with a message describing the important
features and be responsible for its administration after adoption;
   C.   At the end of the fiscal year, direct and supervise the preparation and
submission to the Board of Trustees of a complete report on the finances and
administrative activities of the Village for the preceding year;
   D.   Keep the Board of Trustees advised of the financial condition and
future needs of the Village and make such recommendations as they may deem
desirable;
   E.   Recommend to the Board of Trustees a schedule of pay for all paid
personnel in the Village government and direct and supervise the administration
of all approved pay and compensation plans, Personnel Rules and Regulations and
fringe benefit programs and other employee oriented programs;
   F.   From time to time, recommend to the Board of Trustees adoption of such
measures as they may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or
welfare of the community or for the improvement of Municipal services;
   G.   Consolidate or combine offices, departments or units under their
jurisdiction, upon giving the Mayor and Board of Trustees notice of such
changes. Such changes shall become effective immediately or as otherwise
determined by the Village Manager unless directed otherwise by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees;
   H.   Attend all meetings of the Mayor and Board of Trustees unless excused
therefrom, and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the
Board. The Village Manager shall be entitled to notice of all regular and
special meetings of the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The position shall have no
voting rights;
   I.   Direct and supervise the purchase of all materials, supplies and
equipment for which funds are provided in the budget for amounts up to and
including thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars
($39,999.00).
   For expenditures equal to or greater than fifteen thousand ($15,000.00) and
up to and including twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), secure at least
three (3) formal written quotations before making applicable purchases, and if
called upon by the Board of Trustees, be prepared to present the quotations.
   For expenditures greater than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and
up to and including thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars
($39,999.00), receive sealed bids for purchases or contracts, and if called
upon by the Board of Trustees, be prepared to present the bids.
   For purchases or contracts in excess of thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred
and ninety-nine dollars ($39,999.00), receive sealed bids for purchases or
contracts and present them to the Village Board of Trustees for approval and
advise the Board on the advantages or disadvantages of contract and bid
proposals.
   If circumstances warrant, such as the use of joint/cooperative purchasing, a
sole source contract or for professional services, the requirement for
quotations and formal bidding process may be waived by the Village Manager for
expenditures up to and including thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-
nine dollars ($39,999.00), or by the Village Board for expenditures greater
than thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($39,999.00).
   No purchase shall be made, contract let or obligation incurred for any item
for service which exceeds the current working budget without prior approval by
the Board of Trustees. No contract in excess of thirty-nine thousand, nine
hundred and ninety-nine dollars ($39,999.00) shall be let except by the Board
of Trustees. If circumstances warrant, the Village may at its discretion issue
request for sealed bids at a value lower than twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00).
   The Village Manager may issue such rules governing purchasing procedures for
the Village within the context of the aforementioned regulations.
   J.   Direct and supervise the timely enforcement of all laws, ordinances,
contracts, franchises and agreements;
   K.   Investigate or direct and supervise the investigation of the affairs of
the Village or any department or division or employee thereof. Investigate or
direct and supervise the investigation of all complaints in relation to matters
concerning the administration of the government of the Village;
   L.   Devote their entire time to the discharge of their official duties;
   M.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees not inconsistent with this Code, Illinois Compiled Statutes, law or
Village ordinances.
§ 1-7A-7 EMERGENCIES.
   In case of accident, disaster or other circumstances creating a public
emergency, the Village Manager may award or direct and supervise the awarding
of contracts and make purchases for the purpose of meeting said emergency. The
Village Manager shall promptly file with the Board of Trustees a certificate
showing such emergency and the necessity for such action, together with an
itemized account of all expenditures.
§ 1-7A-8 DEPUTY VILLAGE MANAGER.
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of Deputy
Village Manager who shall be hired by the Village Manager. The Deputy Village
Manager shall serve at the pleasure and under the direction and supervision of
the Village Manager.
   B.   Powers and Duties:
      1.   The Deputy Village Manager shall be responsible for:
         a.   Assisting and advising the Village Manager in the performance of
all duties and responsibilities of the Office of Village Manager. In the
absence of the Village Manager, the Deputy Village Manager shall perform the
duties and responsibilities of the Office of the Village Manager;
         b.   Keeping the Village Manager informed of all matters and
conditions which have any bearing upon the Municipal services or upon the
Village government;
         c.   Directing and coordinating the preparation and all communications
being given to the general public and any of the Municipal departments;
         d.   Directing and coordinating the services provided by all
departments, units and offices in the Village;
         e.   Coordinating and supervising the preparation and distribution of
the Village Board agenda, annual compendium of Municipal services and periodic
community and internal newsletters;
         f.   Directing and supervising the preparation and administration of
the budget, purchasing practices, Personnel Rules and Regulations, contracts,
agreements, franchises and ordinances.
      2.   The Deputy Village Manager is authorized to sign any agreement,
contract, personnel transaction, purchase or communication that may also be
signed by the Village Manager.
   C.   Compensation: The compensation paid to the Deputy Village Manager and
all benefits shall be recommended by the Village Manager and approved by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees.
**** ARTICLE B. VILLAGE CLERK ****
§ 1-7B-1 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees and shall report to the Village Manager.
§ 1-7B-2 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Village Clerk shall furnish a
surety bond in the amount equal to the bond required per Section
1-7C-2 of this Code, conditioned upon the faithful performance of their duties.
§ 1-7B-3 DUTIES.
   A.   Signature Required: The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all
contracts of the Village authorizing the signature of the Mayor, and all
licenses, permits and such other documents requiring this formality.
   B.   Custodian of Village Seal (see Section
1-9-1 of this Title): The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village
seal and shall affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.
   C.   Custodian of Documents: The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all
documents belonging to the Village which are not assigned to the custody of
some other Officer.
   D.   Records Kept: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Village Clerk is required by statute to keep, this individual shall
keep such other records as may be required by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   E.   Indices: The Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to
all documents and records kept so that ready access thereto and use thereof may
be had.
   F.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Village Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required
by statute, ordinance or as directed by the Village Manager.
§ 1-7B-4 DEPUTY CLERK.
   There is hereby created the position of Deputy Clerk. The Village Clerk,
with the approval of the Village Manager, is authorized to appoint a Deputy
Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by
any law or ordinance to be executed by the Village Clerk and affix the seal of
the Village thereto whenever required. In the absence of a Deputy Village
Clerk, the Village Manager, the Deputy Village Manager and the Assistant
Village Manager shall be and function as Deputy Village Clerks and as such may
exercise the powers and duties of the Village Clerk.
   When signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of the
Village Clerk followed by the word “By” and the Deputy Clerk’s own name and the
words “Deputy Clerk”.
   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by such Deputy
Clerk in the absence of the Village Clerk or when the Village Clerk is
incapacitated to perform such function, as determined by the Village Manager.
   Such Deputy Clerk shall have the authority and power herein described and
such further power and authority as may be provided by statute.
**** ARTICLE C. VILLAGE TREASURER ****
§ 1-7C-1 POSITION.
   The Director of Finance, as outlined in Subsection
1-8-1-1A of this Title, shall perform the duties of the Village Treasurer.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5
§ 1-7C-2 BOND.
   The Village Treasurer shall give a bond, before entering upon the duties of
their office, in the sum required by the Board of Trustees, but such amount
shall not be less than that required by statute (65 ILCS 5/5-3-9). This bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties by the
Treasurer and shall be conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss by
reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the Treasurer.
§ 1-7C-3 DUTIES.
   The Village Treasurer shall:
   A.   Generally: Perform such duties as may be prescribed by statute or
ordinance. The individual shall be the custodian of all money paid into the
Village, whether directly from the person paying the money or from the hands of
such other Officer or employee as may receive it, and shall pay out money only
on warrants, vouchers or orders properly signed by the Mayor and Village Clerk;
   B.   Deposit of Funds: Deposit the Village funds in such depositories as may
be selected from time to time as provided by law, and shall keep the deposit of
the Village money separate and distinct from their own money and shall not make
private or personal use of any Village money;
   C.   Investments: Invest idle funds within two (2) working days at
prevailing interest rates or better. Such investments are limited to those
authorized by law for the investment of public funds;
   D.   Records and Reports: Keep records showing all money received, showing
the source from which it is received and the purpose for which it is paid, and
shall keep records at all times showing the financial status of the Village;
   E.   Accounting: Keep such books and accounts as may be required by statute
or ordinance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
§ 1-7C-4 WARRANTS; TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   All warrants drawn on the Treasurer must be signed by the Mayor and
countersigned by the Village Clerk stating the particular fund or appropriation
to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable, and no money
shall be otherwise paid except as may be provided by statute. Money shall not
be transferred by the Treasurer from one fund to another after it has been
received nor appropriated to any other purpose than that for which it has been
collected or paid except as may be ordered by the Mayor and Board of Trustees
in manner and form prescribed by statute (65 ILCS 5/8-1-8 et seq.).
§ 1-7C-5 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS.
   All moneys received on any special assessment shall be held by the Treasurer
as a special fund to be applied only to the payment of the improvement or bonds
and vouchers issued therefor together with interest thereon for which the
assessment was made, and said money shall be used for no other purpose unless
to reimburse the Village for money expended for such improvement. Payments on
bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance with the statutes and the law and
the Treasurer shall keep books and accounts in such a manner so that proper
prorations in payments of principal and interest can be made and ascertained.
§ 1-7C-6 ASSISTANT VILLAGE TREASURER.
   A.   Position Created; Appointment; Term: There is hereby created the
position of Assistant Village Treasurer who shall be appointed by the Village
Manager in the absence of the Village Treasurer.
   B.   Bond: The Assistant Village Treasurer shall give a bond before entering
upon the duties of the office in such sum as is required by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees, but such amount shall not be less than that required by statute.
This bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
the Assistant Treasurer and shall be conditioned to indemnify for any loss by
reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the Assistant Treasurer.
   C.   Duties: The Assistant Village Treasurer shall assist the Village
Treasurer in the performance of those duties prescribed for said Treasurer by
statute or ordinance. In the absence of the Village Treasurer due to sickness,
vacation or vacancy of office, the Assistant Village Treasurer shall assume the
responsibilities of the office of Village Treasurer, including the executing of
checks and drafts; depositing of funds; keeping of applicable records,
including books of account; and such other duties of the Treasurer as is
prescribed by ordinance during the period of absence of the Village Treasurer.
**** ARTICLE D. LEGAL ADVISORS ****
§ 1-7D-1 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Village Attorney. The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Legal Advisor: The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
Village and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting it whenever
requested to do so by any Village official. Upon request by the Mayor or the
Village Manager, the Attorney shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
      2.   Suits and Actions: The Attorney shall prosecute or defend or cause
the prosecution or defense of any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the Village may be a party or in which it may be interested or which may
be brought against or by any Officer of the Village on behalf of the Village or
in the capacity of such person as an Officer of the Village.
   C.   Compensation: The Attorney shall receive such compensation as may be
decided from time to time by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
§ 1-7D-2 SPECIAL COUNSEL.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may, from time
to time, retain an attorney to represent or advise the Village on legal matters
if no attorney has been appointed, and may likewise retain special counsel to
advise or represent the Village on special matters or to assist the Village
Attorney. The Village Manager, with the consent of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, may from time to time retain special counsel to represent or advise
the Village on legal matters or to assist the Village Attorney in those
instances deemed necessary.
§ 1-7D-3 VILLAGE PROSECUTOR.
   A.   Position Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the position of
Village Prosecutor. The Village Prosecutor shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village Prosecutor may
also hold the position of Village Attorney.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the Village Prosecutor to assist the
Village Attorney by attending all proceedings before the presiding judge of the
Third Municipal District of the Circuit Court of Cook County and the Circuit
Court of DuPage County as the case may be that involve prosecution for
violation of a Village ordinance or State statute wherein the Village is
authorized to prosecute and to prosecute such cases on behalf of the Village.
The Village Prosecutor shall advise and assist all Village Officers or
employees on questions of law involved in filing complaints, making arrests and
preparing for prosecution for ordinance violations. The Village Prosecutor
shall also represent the Village in all appeals from decisions rendered by the
presiding judge of the District Court in cases involving a prosecution for
violation of an ordinance or statute. The Village Prosecutor may, in their
absence, retain prosecutors to act on their behalf. Such prosecutors shall have
the duties and powers of the Village Prosecutor when so acting. Their
compensation shall be determined by the Village Prosecutor.
CHAPTER 8: VILLAGE FINANCES
Section
   
1-8-1   Department of Finance
   
1-8-1-1   Director of Finance
   
1-8-2   Municipal Budget
   
1-8-3   Tax Levy
   
1-8-4   Surety Bonds
   
1-8-5   Village Debt
   
1-8-6   Contracts
   
1-8-7   Approval of Bills
   
1-8-8   Warrants
   
1-8-9   Annual Audit
   
1-8-10   Wage Rates for Public Works Employees
   
1-8-11   Annexation Fees
§ 1-8-1 DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   A.   Department Created: There is created a Department of Finance, an
executive department of the Village, to function under the direction and
supervision of the Village Manager.
   B.   Duties of Department: It shall be the duty of the Officers and
employees of the Department of Finance to:
      1.   Bill, receive and deposit all warrants, funds, monies, fees or other
revenues due the Village;
      2.   Disburse and pay all warrants, funds, monies or other payments
expended by the Village;
      3.   Prepare the payroll based on time sheets approved by department
heads and computed in accordance with the Personnel Rules and Regulations;
      4.   Make all purchases with Village funds in accordance with the
approved Purchasing Policy;
      5.   Prepare water and sewer bills based on current meter readings in
accordance with the approved rate structure;
      6.   Keep accurate records and accounts of all fiscal transactions;
      7.   Report on all fiscal transactions and on the status of revenues,
funds, investment and expenditures and such other fiscal and monetary affairs,
such reports to be legible, accurate and in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.
   As to all matters of fiscal administration and management, the requirements
of State statutes and Village ordinances shall be observed and in the absence
of such, modern budgetary, accounting, disbursement and treasury practices
shall be observed.
§ 1-8-1-1 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Term: There is hereby created the position
of Director of Finance who shall be appointed by the Village Manager and who
shall serve at their discretion. The Director of Finance shall be the Chief
Financial Officer of the Village and shall report to the Village Manager. The
Director of Finance shall also be the Village Treasurer (see Chapter 7, Article
C of this Title) and hold other Village offices; provided, however, that the
individual shall not receive compensation for any other office other than
Director of Finance.
   B.   Duties: The duties of the Director of Finance shall include the
direction, supervision and training of all employees of the Department of
Finance. The Director of Finance shall be responsible for billing, collection,
purchasing, disbursement, payroll, budgeting, accounting, treasury and debt
administration, the maintenance of current records of insurance policies, real
and personal property, structural facilities, equipment, banking and investment
transactions and other documents and records pertaining to the fiscal
responsibilities of the Village. They shall perform such other duties as may
from time to time be assigned to them by the Village Manager.
   C.   Compensation: The Director of Finance shall receive a salary in
accordance with the Village pay plan (see Section
1-7-5 of this Title).
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Subsection
1-8-2B of this Chapter
§ 1-8-2 MUNICIPAL BUDGET.
   A.   State Budget Procedures Adopted: 65 ILCS Sections 5/8-2-9.1 through 5/
8-2-9.10 (hereinafter referred to as the budget act) and attached to Ordinance
1791 as Exhibit 1 are hereby adopted as the Municipal budget procedures for the
Village in lieu of the annual appropriation.
   B.   Budget Authority: The Director of Finance shall have the authority to
delete, add to, change or create subclasses within object classes budgeted
previously to the departments, boards or commissions not to exceed the total
approved annual budget. An increase in the total annual budget for a
department, board or commission shall be made only by a vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of the Mayor and Board of Trustees then holding office. No revision shall be
made increasing the budget in the event funds are not available to effectuate
the purpose of the revision.
§ 1-8-3 TAX LEVY.
   The Director of Finance shall prepare a tax levy ordinance which shall be
enacted, as required by law (65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.), levying such taxes as
may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming year, together
with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond issues or for
purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized. A certified copy of
the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk not later than the
last Tuesday in December. Such ordinance shall show the total budgeted for each
item and the amount of tax levied therefor.
§ 1-8-4 SURETY BONDS.
   A.   The Director of Finance shall be responsible for procuring surety bonds
for any Officer or employee for which said bonds are required by statute or
ordinance or by direction of the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   B.   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the Village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this State as a surety company, in the absence of specific
ordinance provision to the contrary.
   C.   Whenever, in their opinion, additional sureties or an additional surety
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the Village against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for any other
reason, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may order a new surety or sureties to
be secured for such bond. If such new surety or sureties are not procured
within ten (10) days from the time such order is transmitted to the principal
of the bond or their assignee, the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall declare
the bond to be void, and thereupon, such principal or assignee shall be deemed
to have surrendered the privilege or position as condition of which the bond
was required.
§ 1-8-5 VILLAGE DEBT.
   No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be
payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a
designated specified source, unless there is a prior budget out of which such
indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/8-1-3 et seq.).
The annual budget shall be adopted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees before
the beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies.
§ 1-8-6 CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor, or any other person designated by the Board of Trustees, may
sign, on behalf of the Village, any contract authorized by the Village Board.
No contract may be entered into without the authority of the Village Board,
except as provided for in the Village’s Purchasing Policy.
§ 1-8-7 APPROVAL OF BILLS.
   All bills payable by the Village, other than for the payment of salaries
established by the Village Board, shall be submitted to the Village Board for
approval before payment.
§ 1-8-8 WARRANTS.
   The Treasurer shall pay out money in payment of all bills or for salaries or
for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or interest on
bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrant signed by the Mayor and
the Village Clerk as provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/8-1-8). Such warrants shall
designate the items to be paid and the funds from which they are to be paid.
§ 1-8-9 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year and no later than
six (6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the
Village made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the
laws of Illinois, to be designated by the Village Board. Copies of such audit
report shall be filed with the Village Clerk and with the Director of the State
Department of Revenue and in such other places as may be required by law.
§ 1-8-10 WAGE RATES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES.
   A.   Wage Rates Established: To the extent and as required by the Prevailing
Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01), the general prevailing rate of wages in this
locality for laborers, mechanics and other workmen engaged in the construction
of public works coming under the jurisdiction of this Village is hereby
ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction
work in Cook County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State
as of June of each year. The definition of any terms appearing in this Section
which are also used in aforesaid act shall be the same as in said Act.
   B.   Application to Public Works Employment: Nothing herein contained shall
be construed to apply said general prevailing rate of wages as herein
ascertained to any work or employment except public works construction of this
Village to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
§ 1-8-11 ANNEXATION FEES.
   All fees for annexations to the Village shall be as provided by resolution
of the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
CHAPTER 9: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-9-1   Village Seal
   
1-9-2   Elections
§ 1-9-1 VILLAGE SEAL.
   Village of Elk Grove Village and the Exceptional Community and Design (Elk
standing on hilltop within a circle, inscribed within the circle are the words
“Elk Grove Village” and “The Exceptional Community”).
§ 1-9-2 ELECTIONS.
   Elections for Municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute and at
the time prescribed by statute (65 ILCS 5/5-2-1).
CHAPTER 10: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
Section
   
1-10-1   Adoption of Act
   
1-10-2   Solicitation of Gifts Prohibited
   
1-10-3   Offering of Gifts Prohibited
   
1-10-4   Participation in Political Activities Prohibited
   
1-10-5   Definitions
   
1-10-6   Penalty
   
1-10-7   Modification of Existing Ordinances
   
1-10-8   Automatic Amendment
   
1-10-9   Unconstitutional Declaration
   
1-10-10   Partial Declaration of Constitutionality
§ 1-10-1 ADOPTION OF ACT.
   The regulations of Section 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS
430/10-10 - 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/
1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this Chapter) are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the
Village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
§ 1-10-2 SOLICITATION OF GIFTS PROHIBITED.
   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any Officer or any employee of the Village, is
hereby prohibited.
§ 1-10-3 OFFERING OF GIFTS PROHIBITED.
   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
Officer or employee of the Village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
§ 1-10-4 PARTICIPATION IN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by an
officer or employee of the Village, is hereby prohibited.
§ 1-10-5 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this Chapter, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
§ 1-10-6 PENALTY.
   The penalties for violations of this Chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
§ 1-10-7 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   This Chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of Village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this Chapter, however, the provisions of this Chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
§ 1-10-8 AUTOMATIC AMENDMENT.
   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective date of
this Chapter shall be incorporated into this Chapter by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this Chapter by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the Village.
§ 1-10-9 UNCONSTITUTIONAL DECLARATION.
   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this Chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This Chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the Village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
§ 1-10-10 PARTIAL DECLARATION OF CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional but
upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not address
the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by this
Chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
Chapter relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the Village.
CHAPTER 11: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Section
   
1-11-1   Purpose
   
1-11-2   Creation of Code Hearing Unit; Jurisdiction
   
1-11-3   Hearing Procedures Nonexclusive
   
1-11-4   Code Hearing Unit
   
1-11-5   Ordinance Enforcement Administrator
   
1-11-6   Computer Programs
   
1-11-7   Personnel
   
1-11-8   Complaints; Notices of Hearings
   
1-11-9   Administrative Hearing Procedures
   
1-11-10   Rules of Evidence Shall Not Govern
   
1-11-11   Judicial Review
   
1-11-12   Enforcement of Judgment
   
1-11-13   Procedures for Standing, Parking and Compliance Violations
§ 1-11-1 PURPOSE.
   The stated purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the fair and efficient
enforcement of the Village of Elk Grove Village (hereinafter referred to as
“Village”) ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by ordinance,
through an administrative adjudication of violations of such Village ordinances
and by establishing a schedule of fines and penalties for violations, and
authority and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties and
enforcement of orders to correct violations.
§ 1-11-2 CREATION OF CODE HEARING UNIT; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby created within the Village of Elk Grove Village an executive
unit of the Municipal government to be known as the code hearing unit, which is
authorized to provide for and operate a “system of administrative
adjudication”, which shall be defined as the adjudication of any violation of
any Municipal ordinance of the Village of Elk Grove Village, including, but not
limited to, Title 6, “Police Department; Motor Vehicles and Traffic; Ordinance
Violations”, of this Code, including vehicle seizure and impoundment
regulations; as well as the Zoning Ordinance; Building, Health, Fire and
Property Maintenance Codes; and various regulations of the Village of Elk Grove
Village; provided that proceedings not within the statutory or home rule
authority of the Village and any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code (625
ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.) or similar offenses of a local ordinance that is a
traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles, and any reportable
offense under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, shall not be subject
to administrative adjudication pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 1-11-3 HEARING PROCEDURES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall not preclude the Village from using
other methods or proceedings to enforce the ordinances of the Village of Elk
Grove Village, including, but not limited to, the institution of any action in
the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, or any other administrative
proceeding.
§ 1-11-4 CODE HEARING UNIT.
   The code hearing unit shall be composed of an Administrative Adjudicator, an
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, the Chief of Police or their designee,
hearing room personnel and any other duly appointed person or persons deemed
necessary for the efficient administration of the code hearing unit, with the
following powers, duties and authority.
   A.   All adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by an Administrative
Adjudicator who shall be an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of
Illinois for no less than three (3) years. The Administrative Adjudicator shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
Prior to conducting administrative adjudication hearings, the Administrative
Adjudicator shall have successfully completed a formal training program which
includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings;
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders; and
   B.   Administrative Adjudicators are hereby authorized, empowered and
directed to:
      1.   Administer oaths;
      2.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence
of an ordinance violation;
      3.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      4.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing, including all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      5.   Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a code violation occurred or exists. The Administrative
Adjudicator’s determination shall be in writing and shall include written
findings of fact, decision and order including the fine, penalty or other
action with which the respondent must comply;
      6.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable provisions of this Code
and assess costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation;
provided, however, that the Administrative Adjudicator shall not be authorized
to: a) impose a penalty of incarceration; b) impose fines in excess of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) against a single respondent; or c) levy a total
fine and penalty in excess of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for any one
violation of a standing, parking or compliance regulation except that the total
fine and penalty for any one violation of Section 11-1301.3 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3) or similar provision of the Village of Elk
Grove Village ordinances shall not exceed three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00);
      7.   The maximum monetary fine under Subsection B6 of this Section shall,
except as may otherwise be provided, be exclusive of costs of enforcement or
costs incurred by the Village to secure compliance with the Village’s
ordinances and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of
any tax imposed and collected by the Municipality.
§ 1-11-5 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall either be an employee of the
Village or an independent contractor or agency contracted by the Village to
perform such duties as enumerated herein. The Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to:
   A.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing and/or parking regulation violations, vehicle compliance
violations, vehicle license or sticker requirement violations; Building, Fire
and Health Code violations; and all other Village of Elk Grove Village
ordinance violations as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
   B.   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under this
Chapter or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of this
Chapter;
   C.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
determination of liability;
   D.   Certify copies of final determinations of vehicular standing and/or
parking regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violations, vehicle
license or sticker requirement violations; Building, Fire and Health Code
violations; or any other ordinance violation adjudicated pursuant to this
Chapter as may be necessary;
   E.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the system of administrative adjudication hereby established; and
   F.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties including the use of private
collection agencies that may be retained by the Village or by directing the
Village Attorney to file complaints in the Cook County Circuit Court, or by
selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on behalf of the Village
in filing complaints, seeking judgments for unpaid fines or penalties and
pursuing all post-judgment remedies available under current law.
§ 1-11-6 COMPUTER PROGRAMS.
   The Ordinance Enforcement Administrator is hereby further authorized,
empowered and directed to operate and maintain computer programs for the system
of administrative adjudication hereby established, on a day to day basis,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Inputting of violation notice information;
   B.   Establishing hearing dates and notice dates;
   C.   Recording fine and penalty assessment and payments;
   D.   Issuing payment receipts;
   E.   Issuing succeeding notices of hearing dates and/or final determinations
of liability and issuing notices of impending driver’s license suspension as
may be required, in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code;
   F.   Keeping accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered and fines and other penalties assessed
and paid.
§ 1-11-7 PERSONNEL.
   Hearing room personnel shall be appointed by the Chief of Police and may
include any police officer or auxiliary police officer, and such persons are
hereby authorized and directed to:
   A.   Maintain hearing room decorum;
   B.   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of the
Circuit Court;
   C.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and as
directed by the Administrative Adjudicator or the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator.
§ 1-11-8 COMPLAINTS; NOTICES OF HEARINGS.
   A.   A proceeding before an Administrative Adjudicator shall be instituted
upon the filing of a written sworn notice of violation or complaint by any
authorized official of the Village, including police officers, community
service officers and/or code enforcement officers, and such other employees as
may be authorized to issue notices of violation of Village ordinances.
   B.   Respondents shall be served with a copy of the verified sworn notice of
violation or complaint along with a notice of adjudicatory hearing in any
manner reasonably calculated to give them actual notice of the proceeding
instituted against them including:
      1.   Personal service upon a party;
      2.   Service by certified mail return receipt requested at the party’s
address;
      3.   Service by first class mail postage prepaid at the party’s address;
      4.   Service by posting a copy of the sworn pleading or complaint upon
the property where the violation is found when the respondent party is the
owner or manager of the property;
      5.   In the case of a parking, standing or vehicle compliance regulation,
service of the violation notice shall be by affixing the notice to the vehicle,
or as set forth in Subsection
1-11-13-E of this Chapter.
   C.   Notices of the adjudicatory hearing shall include:
      1.   The type and nature of the alleged ordinance violation to be
adjudicated;
      2.   The date, time and location of the adjudicatory hearing;
      3.   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to
be held; and
      4.   The penalties for failure to appear at the hearing and in the case
of a motor vehicle parking, standing or compliance violation, the amount of the
fine, any penalty for late payment and that payment of the fine shall act as
the final disposition of the violation.
§ 1-11-9 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES.
   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing during which
they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses and cross-examine
opposing witnesses. Parties may request the Administrative Adjudicator to issue
subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the
production of relevant documents. Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable
promptness, provided that for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency
situations, if requested by the respondent, the respondent shall have at least
fifteen (15) days after service of process to prepare for a hearing. For
purposes of this Subsection, “nonemergency situation” means any situation that
does not reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, health
or welfare. If service of the notice of violation is provided by mail, the
fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on the day that the notice is
deposited in the mail.
§ 1-11-10 RULES OF EVIDENCE SHALL NOT GOVERN.
   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in an
adjudicatory hearing authorized under this Section. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
§ 1-11-11 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any final decision by an Administrative Adjudicator that a code violation
does or does not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of
judicial review and that decision shall be subject to review under the Illinois
Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
§ 1-11-12 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   A.   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law is a debt due and owing the Village of Elk Grove Village and may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of
an ordinance violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the Administrative Adjudicator may be enforced
in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a respondent has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering that respondent to correct an ordinance violation or imposing any fine
or other sanction as a result of an ordinance violation, any expenses incurred
by the Village to enforce the judgment entered against that defendant,
including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of
competent jurisdiction or Administrative Adjudicator, shall be a debt due and
owing the Village of Elk Grove Village and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by the Administrative
Adjudicator pursuant to this Section, the Village shall provide a notice to the
respondent that states that the respondent shall appear at a hearing before the
Administrative Adjudicator to determine whether the defendant has failed to
comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such hearing, which
shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice is served. If
notice is served by first class mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the
Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.), or by the Uniform
Commercial Code (810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.), a lien may be imposed on the real
estate or personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount of any debt
due and owing the Village under this Chapter. The lien may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   E.   The Administrative Adjudicator may set aside any judgment entered by
default and set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed by the respondent
within thirty (30) days after the issuance of the order of default, if the
Administrative Adjudicator determines that the respondent’s failure to appear
at the hearing was for good cause, or at any time if the respondent
established, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Village did not
provide proper service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to
this Subsection, the Administrative Adjudicator shall have authority to enter
an order extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and
owing the Village as a result of the vacated default judgment. When a judgment
is vacated, the Administrative Adjudicator shall set a new date for a hearing
on the underlying violation(s).
§ 1-11-13 PROCEDURES FOR STANDING, PARKING AND COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS.
   The procedures for the system of administrative adjudication of standing,
parking or compliance regulation violations shall be as follows.
   A.   Violation Notice: A standing, parking or compliance regulation notice
(“violation notice”) shall be issued by the persons authorized in this Chapter,
herein and shall contain information and shall be served, certified and have
evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Authorization: All full time police officers, community service
officers and all code enforcement personnel shall have the authority to issue
violation notices.
   C.   Detection of Violations: Any individual authorized to issue a violation
notice pursuant to this Chapter who detects a violation of any standing,
parking or compliance provision of this Code shall issue and serve a notice of
violation as set forth in this Section.
   D.   Contents of Violation Notice: The standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation;
      2.   The particular standing, parking or compliance regulation violated;
      3.   The vehicle make and State registration number, if applicable;
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payments;
      5.   The identification number of the person issuing the notice and their
signature which shall certify the correctness of the specified information as
provide in Section 11-208.3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-208.3),
as amended;
      6.   The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits or a statement the person will be
notified of a hearing time;
      7.   If applicable, a statement that payment of the indicated fine and
any late payment penalty shall operate as a final disposition of the violation;
and
      8.   If applicable, information as to the availability for a contest and
an adjudication by mail by which the registered owner or lessee of the motor
vehicle may contest by mail without personally appearing to contest the merits
of the violation notice and the manner in which such contest by mail may be
had.
   E.   Service of Violation Notices: Service of the violation notices shall be
made by the person issuing such notice as set forth in Section
1-11-8-B. In the case of a parking, standing or vehicle compliance regulation,
service of the violation notice shall be made in one of the following ways:
      1.   Offering the original or a facsimile of the notice of violation to
the unlawfully standing, parked or compliance violation vehicle;
      2.   Handing the notice of violation to the operator of the motor vehicle
violating a parking, standing or compliance regulation; or
      3.   Mailing the notice of violation to the address of the registered
owner or lessee of the cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State or
lessor of the vehicle within thirty (30) days after the Secretary of State or
lessor of the motor vehicle notifies the Village of the identity of the owner
or lessee of the vehicle, but not later than ninety (90) days after the date of
the violation except that in the case of a lessee of a motor vehicle, service
of the violation notice of a parking, standing or compliance violation may
occur no later than two hundred ten (210) days after the violation.
   F.   Certification of Facts Alleged in Violation Notice: The correctness of
facts contained in the standing, parking or compliance regulation violation
notices shall be certified by the person authorized to issue said notice by
either:
      1.   Signing their name to the notices at the time of service; or
      2.   Signing a single certificate, to be retained by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator, who shall be the Chief of Police or their designee,
or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, attesting to the correctness of all
notices produced by the device while under his/her control when the violation
notice is produced by a computer device.
   G.   Retention of Violation Notices: The original or a facsimile of the
violation notice shall be retained by the Traffic Compliance Administrator or
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary course
of business.
   H.   Prima Facie Evidence of Correctness: Any violation notice issued,
signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice, shall be
prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts shown on the notice.
   I.   Admissibility: The violation notices or copies shall be admissible in
any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
   J.   Action upon Receiving Violation Notice/Opportunity for Hearing: Unless
the violation is issued as “must appear”, any person to whom a standing,
parking or compliance regulation violation notice has been served pursuant to
this Section, may, within thirty-five (35) days from the date of the issuance
of standing, parking or compliance violation notice: 1) pay the indicated fine;
or 2) submit the materials set forth in this Section to contest the violation
by mail.
   Alternatively, any person to whom a standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation notice has been served pursuant to this Section, may
attend an administrative hearing as set forth in this Section to contest the
charged violation. An administrative hearing date will be assigned at the time
the notice of violation is issued.
   Any person issued a “must appear” citation or, since the indicated fine is
the minimum fine established by Ordinance, any person who contests the ticket
at the scheduled hearing may be subject to a judgment being entered in the
amount of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
   When a respondent fails to either pay the indicated fine prior to the
hearing, contest the violation by mail or appear at a hearing, a determination
of standing, parking or compliance liability, as the case may be, shall be
entered in the amount of the fine indicated on the notice of violation or as
determined by the Administrative Adjudicator. Failure to pay the fine within
thirty-five (35) days of issuance of a determination of liability will result
in the imposition of a late payment penalty. Upon the occurrence of a final
determination of liability, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt
due and owing the Village. The respondent shall be served with a notice of
final determination of liability in accordance with this Section.
   K.   Second Notice of Parking, Standing or Compliance Violation: A second
notice of standing, parking or compliance violation shall be sent to the
respondent in accordance with Subsection M of this Section. The second notice
of violation shall contain the information specified in Subsection D of this
Section.
   L.   Notice of Final Determination of Liability: A notice of final
determination of standing, parking or compliance liability shall be sent
following a determination of liability for the standing, parking or compliance
violation and the conclusion of any administrative or judicial review, as is
herein after set forth, and the notice shall contain, but not be limited to,
the following information and warnings:
      1.   A statement that the unpaid fine or penalty, or both, is a debt due
and owing the Village; and
      2.   A warning that failure to pay the fine or penalty due and owing the
Village within twenty-one (21) days of the issuance of the final determination
of liability may result in the filing of a petition in the Circuit Court to
have the unpaid fine or penalty, or both, rendered a judgment as provided by
this Section.
   M.   Notices: The Traffic Compliance Administrator or Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator shall send the notice of standing, parking or compliance
violation; the second notice of standing, parking or compliance violation; the
Administrative Adjudicator’s notice of determination of liability; and the
notice of final determination of liability, where applicable, to the respondent
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address of the respondent, or
address recorded with the Illinois Secretary of State, if applicable. If any
such notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, then to the last
known address recorded in a United States Post Office approved database.
   If the vehicle is registered in a state other than Illinois, the Ordinance
Enforcement Administrator shall send the appropriate notice to the address of
the registered owner as recorded in such other state’s registry of motor
vehicles.
   N.   A final determination of standing, parking violation or compliance
violation liability shall occur following the failure to pay the total assessed
fine and penalty after the Administrative Adjudicator’s determination of
liability and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any judicial review
procedures set forth in this Section or the failure to file a petition to
vacate a default judgment as set forth in Subsection O of this Section.
   The Administrative Adjudicator’s determination of liability of standing,
parking violations and compliance violations made under this Section shall
become final upon denial of a timely petition to vacate and/or set aside that
determination, or upon expiration of the period for filing the petition to
vacate without a filing have been made where a person fails to appear at a
hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a
prior mailed notice.
   O.   A petition to set aside a default judgment or determination of
liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty in the
manner and subject to the restrictions and grounds hereinafter set forth:
      1.   A written petition to set aside a default judgment or determination
of liability must be filed with the Traffic Compliance Administrator or
Ordinance Enforcement Administrator, c/o Elk Grove Village Police Department,
within, but not later than, twenty-one (21) days from the date the default
judgment or determination of liability is made;
      2.   The Administrative Adjudicator shall act upon a petition timely
filed and render a decision thereon within thirty (30) days of the date filed;
      3.   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
         a.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made
was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the vehicular
standing and parking violation or vehicle compliance violation notice was
issued;
         b.   The person has already paid the fine and any penalty; and
         c.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a
hearing.
      4.   Should the default judgment or determination of liability by the
Administrative Adjudicator be set aside, the Traffic Compliance Administrator
or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator shall:
         a.   Notify the respondent that the default judgment or determination
of liability has been set aside;
         b.   Notify the respondent of the date, time and place for a new
hearing on the merits of the violation for which the default judgment or
determination of liability has been set aside;
         c.   Notice of setting aside of the default judgment or determination
of liability and the notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the address set forth on the petition to set aside the
default judgment or determination of liability; and
         d.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notices
are deposited in the United States mail.
   P.   Contest by Mail Procedures: Persons who have been served standing,
parking or compliance regulation notices, in accordance with this Section, may
contest the validity of the alleged violation without personally appearing at
an administrative hearing by:
      1.   Contest by Mail: Completing, in full, the “contest by mail” section
of the violation notice, served upon them pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   Signature: Signing the “contest by mail” in the space specified in
the violation notice, and
acknowledging that their personal appearance is waived and submitting to an
adjudication based upon the signed statement and other supporting materials
filed by them and the facts contained in the violation notice.
      3.   Filing Materials: Filing by mail with the Traffic Compliance
Administrator or Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked within thirty-
five (35) days of the violation notice issuance or within twenty-one (21) days
of the date of the additional violation notice, the following materials: the
violation notice with the “contest by mail” section fully completed; the full
name, address and telephone number(s) of the respondent; the make, model and
year of the vehicle, if applicable; any documentary evidence that rebuts the
charge; and a written statement signed by the respondent setting forth facts
relevant to establishing a defense to the charge.
      4.   Grounds for Review: A person charged with a parking, standing or
compliance regulation violation may contest the charge by mail by asserting one
or more defenses to the violation with appropriate evidence to support such
defense(s).
      5.   Determination of Liability: Upon review of the materials submitted,
the Administrative Adjudicator shall make a determination of liability or non-
liability. The Administrative Adjudicator shall, upon a determination of
liability, assess fines as authorized by this Code.
      6.   Notice of Determination: Notice of the determination of the
Administrative Adjudicator shall be served upon the person contesting a
violation notice by mail by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
person at the address set forth in the materials submitted.
      7.   Service of Notice: Service of the notice of determination shall be
complete on the date the notice is placed in the United States mail.
   Q.   Penalties: The fines and penalties which shall be imposed for each
violation of a vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation
shall be no less than thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and the fines and penalties shall be uniformly applied for
each violation; provided, however, fines and penalties for a violation of
parking in a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities (handicapped
parking) shall be not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than
three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
      1.   Excluding penalties for violations of parking in a parking space
reserved for persons with disabilities, failing to pay the indicated fine or
attend a scheduled hearing within thirty-five (35) days of the issuance of the
determination of liability and the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust any
administrative review procedures shall result in the imposition of a late
payment penalty fee in addition to the fine as follows:
         a.   Parking Violations (excluding handicap parking and fire lane
violations):
            Thirty dollars ($30.00) if paid before thirty-five (35) days
following issuance;
            Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) when paid more than thirty-five (35)
days but less than sixty-three (63) days following the issuance of
determination;
            One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) when paid more than sixty-three
(63) days following the issuance of determination.
         b.   Handicap Parking Violation:
            Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
         c.   Fire Lane Violations:
            Fifty dollars ($50.00) if paid before thirty-five (35) days
following issuance;
            Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) when paid more than thirty-five (35)
days but less than sixty-three (63) days following the issuance of
determination;
            One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) when paid more than sixty-three
(63) days following the issuance of determination.
         d.   Compliance Violation:
            Fifty dollars ($50.00) if paid before thirty-five (35) days
following issuance;
            Seventy-five dollars ($75.00) when paid more than thirty-five (35)
days but less than sixty-three (63) days following the issuance of
determination;
            One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) when paid more than sixty-three
(63) days following the issuance of determination.
   R.   The Village of Elk Grove Village hereby adopts, by reference, all
current and future provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, including all
current and future amendments to the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq.) governing the standing, parking or condition of motor vehicles, for its
enforcement and adjudication within the corporate boundaries of the Village and
in those areas subject to off-street parking agreements.
TITLE 2: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Chapter
      
1 .   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2 .   PLAN COMMISSION
      
3 .   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
      
4 .   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
      
5 .   BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
      
6 .   PENSION BOARDS
      
7 .   LIBRARY BOARD
      
8 .   FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
      
9 .   YOUTH COMMITTEE
      
10 .   PARADE COMMITTEE
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
2-1-1   Appointment; Term
   
2-1-2   Notice of Meetings
§ 2-1-1 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   A.   Appointment: All members of a board or commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees unless
otherwise provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5).
   B.   Term; Removal: Unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance, each
board member or commissioner shall serve a term of four (4) years or until a
successor has been duly appointed and is deemed qualified. The Mayor, with
concurrence from the Board of Trustees, may remove any member of a board or
commission appointed by them at any time.
§ 2-1-2 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   A.   The Village Clerk, on behalf of the boards and commissions, shall, at
the beginning of each calendar year, prepare and make available a schedule
stating the date, time and place of regular meetings of the boards and
commissions. In addition, the Village Clerk shall post a notice of all said
meetings on bulletin boards in the lobby of the administrative office building
and shall furnish a copy of said notice to all news media requesting same.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the chairperson of all boards and commissions
of the Village to notify the Village Clerk of any change in any regular meeting
of the boards and commissions at least fifteen (15) days in advance of the
change in said meeting, whereupon the Village Clerk shall post a notice of such
change at least ten (10) days in advance of the meeting date. Posting shall
include placing a copy of the notice on bulletin boards as aforenoted and by
publishing said notice of change in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village at least ten (10) days in advance of the change. All news media
requesting notice of meetings shall be notified by the Village Clerk.
   C.   It shall be the further duty of the chairperson to notify the Village
Clerk at least seventy-two (72) hours in advance of any special, rescheduled or
reconvened meeting, whereupon the Village Clerk shall arrange a public posting
on the aforementioned bulletin boards at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to
such meeting. This requirement for posting shall not be necessary when a
reconvened meeting is within twenty-four (24) hours of the original meeting or
when the announcement of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was made
at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda. All news media
requesting notice of meetings shall be notified as provided by law, said notice
to news media to be arranged by the Village Clerk.
CHAPTER 2: PLAN COMMISSION
Section
   
2-2-1   Commission Created; Membership; Appointment; Term; Vacancies
   
2-2-2   Organization
   
2-2-3   Compensation
   
2-2-4   Powers and Duties
   
2-2-5   Subdivisions or Resubdivisions; Official Map
§ 2-2-1 COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM; VACANCIES.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
Comprehensive Village Plan (see Title 8, Chapter 2 of this Code) for the
guidance, direction and control of the growth and development of the Village
and contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond
the corporate limits and not included in any Municipality, a Plan Commission is
hereby created under authority of the statutes (65 ILCS 5/11-12-4) of the State
of Illinois.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine (9) members who shall be appointed
by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees and who shall be
residents of the Village. One (1) of the nine (9) members shall be appointed by
the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees as Chairperson. All
appointed members shall serve for a term of four (4) years, which shall run
concurrently with the term of the Mayor. Vacancies on the Plan Commission shall
be filled by appointment of the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of
Trustees, for the remainder of the unexpired term.
§ 2-2-2 ORGANIZATION.
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the Plan Commission shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such times as such the Chairperson may determine. All
hearings conducted by it shall be open to the public.
   B.   Rules and Regulations: The members of the Plan Commission shall adopt,
and later change or alter, rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with Village ordinances and State laws.
   C.   Records: The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings,
which shall be open at all times to public inspection.
   D.   Annual Report: Upon request by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, the
Commission shall also file an annual report with the Mayor and Board of
Trustees setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
§ 2-2-3 COMPENSATION.
   All members shall serve without compensation.
§ 2-2-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees a
Comprehensive Plan (see Title 8, Chapter 2 of this Code) for the present and
future development of the Village and contiguous unincorporated territory not
more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the
Village and not included in any other municipality. Such Plan may be adopted in
whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each of which, when
adopted, shall be the Official Comprehensive Plan, or part thereof, of the
Village. Such Plan shall be advisory except as to such part thereof as has been
implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village Board of Trustees. All
requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the County
Recorder of Deeds and filing of said Plan and ordinances with the Municipal
Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for the health,
safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the Village and
contiguous territory, such Plan or Plans shall establish reasonable standards
of design for subdivisions and for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of
areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as herein
defined and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage
collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall become
regulatory only when adopted by ordinance (see Title 8, Chapter 2 of this
Code);
   B.   To designate land suitable for annexation to the Municipality and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   C.   To recommend to the Village Board of Trustees from time to time such
changes in the Comprehensive Plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed
necessary;
   D.   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees, from time to
time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of
the Official Comprehensive Plan;
   E.   To give aid to the officials of the Village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the Official Plan, or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally to promote
the realization of the Official Comprehensive Plan;
   F.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding;
   G.   To cooperate with Municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area;
   H.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the statutes of the State of Illinois and as may be
conferred by the Village Board of Trustees;
   I.   To act as a Zoning Commission in accordance with the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance. (See Subsection 8-2-C2 of the Village Zoning Code.)
§ 2-2-5 SUBDIVISIONS OR RESUBDIVISIONS; OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the Official
Comprehensive Plan by the corporate authorities, an Official Map may be
designated by ordinance, which Map may consist of the whole area included
within the Official Comprehensive Plan or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one-half (1 1/2) miles from the corporate
limits of the Village. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of said plan and
ordinances, including the Official Map, with the Municipal Clerk shall be
complied with as provided for by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or
resubdivision presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits
of the Village or within contiguous territory which is not more than one and
one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond the corporate limits shall be entitled to record
or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon provides for standards
of design and standards governing streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public
service facilities, street lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for
residential or other purposes, storm and flood water runoff channels and
basins, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection
and treatment in conformity with the applicable requirements of the ordinances,
including the Official Map.
CHAPTER 3: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
   
2-3-1   Board Created; Membership; Appointment; Term
   
2-3-2   Organization
   
2-3-3   Duties
   
2-3-4   Variations
   
2-3-5   Fees
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see 8-2-B of the Village Zoning Code
§ 2-3-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   There is hereby created a Zoning Board of Appeals on zoning matters as
provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/11-13-3) which shall consist of nine (9) members
to be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
   Following the original appointments as provided by statute, the successor of
each member so appointed shall serve for a term of four (4) years, which shall
run concurrently with the term of the Mayor.
§ 2-3-2 ORGANIZATION.
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at
the call of the Chairperson and at such times as the Chairperson may determine.
All hearings conducted by it shall be open to the public.
   B.   Minutes and Records: The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and
other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of
each case of a requested variation and the reasons for recommending or denying
such variation shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or
repeal thereof and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Board shall be filed immediately in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall
be a public record.
   C.   Rules of Procedure; Officers: The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with ordinances of the Village or with the Illinois
statutes in such case made and provided and may select or appoint such officers
as it deems necessary.
§ 2-3-3 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Board of Appeals to hear any appeal of
any decision, order or interpretation from the Director of Community
Development, whose duty it is to enforce the Zoning Ordinance and it shall, as
a result of said appeal and hearing, recommend to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees the affirmation or reversal of the decision of said Director. The
concurring vote of five (5) members shall be required for each recommendation.
§ 2-3-4 VARIATIONS.
   Where, in a specific case, an application for a variation is made in writing
to the Zoning Board of Appeals explaining that because of certain exceptional
conditions peculiar to the applicant’s property or its environment that strict
application of the regulations of the Zoning Ordinance would result in
practical difficulties and particular hardship upon the owner, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall consider the case at a public hearing, fifteen (15) days’
notice of which shall have been given as prescribed by statute (5 ILCS 100/10-
5), and shall determine and record all the facts that tend to sustain or fail
to sustain the granting of a variation from the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance. If the Zoning Board of Appeals determines, by a concurring vote of a
majority of a quorum, that the proposed variation or modification of it will
not: a) reduce the minimum area or dimension nor increase the maximum
dimensions by more than fifty percent (50%), b) impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, c) increase the congestion in public
streets unreasonably, d) increase the hazard of fire, e) endanger the public
safety, f) diminish or impair the values of property within the surrounding
areas, or g) in any other respect impair the public health, safety, comfort and
welfare of the people, it shall adopt a motion embodying such findings and
recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees that a variation be granted
subject to such conditions, if any, as the Board deems necessary.
§ 2-3-5 FEES.
   All fees for petitions to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be as provided
in the Zoning Ordinance or by resolution of the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
CHAPTER 4: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Section
   
2-4-1   Agency Established
   
2-4-2   Composition
   
2-4-3   Director
   
2-4-4   Coordinator
   
2-4-5   Functions
   
2-4-6   Service as Mobile Support Team
   
2-4-7   Agreements with Other Political Subdivisions
   
2-4-8   Emergencies, Action, Ability of Village Government to Function
   
2-4-9   Emergency Management Agency and Emergency Operations Plan
   
2-4-10   Compensation
   
2-4-11   Reimbursement by State
   
2-4-12   Purchases and Expenditures
   
2-4-13   Oath
   
2-4-14   Office
   
2-4-15   Appropriation; Levy of Taxes
   
2-4-16   Violations and Penalties
§ 2-4-1 AGENCY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from natural
or manmade disaster, or disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other
hostile action in accordance with the “Illinois Emergency Management Act of
1992” (10 ILCS 3305).
§ 2-4-2 COMPOSITION.
   The Mayor, as executive head of the Municipal government, shall be
responsible for the organization, administration and operation of the Emergency
Management Agency. The Agency shall consist of the following:
   A.   An office of emergency management within the executive department of
the Village government and under the direction of the Mayor; a position of
Director to be held by the Village Manager or their designee; a position of
Coordinator to be held by the Fire Chief; and such assistants and other
employees as deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the Agency.
   B.   The employees, equipment and facilities of all Village departments,
boards, institutions and commissions will participate in the emergency
management activity. Duties assigned to a Village department shall be the same
or similar to the normal duties of the department.
   C.   Volunteer individuals and agencies offering service to, and accepted
by, the Village.
§ 2-4-3 DIRECTOR.
   A.   Duties: Under the supervision of the Mayor, the Director shall have the
responsibility for the management of the Emergency Management Agency, to
include the Coordinator and support staff.
   B.   Vacancy in Office: In the event of the absence, resignation, death or
inability to serve as the Director of Emergency Management, the Mayor or
individual designated by the Mayor, shall be and act as Director until a new
appointment is made as provided in this Chapter.
§ 2-4-4 COORDINATOR.
   A.   Duties: Under the supervision of the Mayor and the Village Manager/
Director of Emergency Management, the Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the planning, coordination and operation of the emergency
management activity in the Village. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison with
the State and Federal authorities and the authorities of other nearby political
subdivisions to ensure the most effective operation of the Emergency Operations
Plan. The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the Village for emergency management
purposes;
      2.   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
Village facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources for the purposes of
minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property and protecting and
restoring to usefulness governmental services and public utilities necessary
for the public health, safety and welfare;
      3.   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other
property for emergency management purposes, and designating suitable buildings
as public shelters;
      4.   Conducting public practice alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of emergency management regulations, procedures and operations;
      5.   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activity;
      6.   Assuming such authority and conducting such activity as the Mayor
may direct to promote and execute the Emergency Operations Plan.
   B.   Vacancy in Office: In the event of the absence, resignation, death or
inability to serve as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by
the Mayor, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this Chapter.
§ 2-4-5 FUNCTIONS.
   The Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency shall perform such
emergency management functions within the Municipality as shall be prescribed
in and by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Emergency Operations Plan
and program and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor. In addition, it shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement entered into
with any other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality as
provided by the Illinois Emergency Management Act of 1992, being 20 ILCS 3305.
§ 2-4-6 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   All or any members of the Emergency Management Agency may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the State Director of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency as provided by law. The leader of such mobile
support team shall be designated by the Director of the Elk Grove Village
Emergency Management Agency.
   Any member of a mobile support team who is a Municipal employee or officer,
while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director of the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency, shall receive the compensation and have
the powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or
office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
Municipality, while so serving, shall receive from the State reasonable
compensation as provided by law.
§ 2-4-7 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other Municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the
State, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees and by the State Director of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency.
§ 2-4-8 EMERGENCIES, ACTION, ABILITY OF VILLAGE GOVERNMENT TO FUNCTION.
   A.   Emergency Action: If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency
exists in the event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the
occurrence within the State of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from
enemy sabotage or other hostile action or from manmade or natural disaster, it
shall be the duty of the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency to
cooperate fully with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency and with the
Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
   B.   Emergency Powers and Duties: The Mayor may exercise the emergency power
and authority necessary to fulfill their general powers and duties as defined
in Village ordinance. The judgment of the Mayor shall be the sole criteria
necessary to invoke emergency powers provided by ordinance and other
appropriate authorities. The Board of Trustees may convene to perform its
legislative and administrative powers as the situation demands and shall
receive reports relative to emergency management activities. Nothing in this
Chapter shall be construed as abridging or curtailing the powers or
restrictions of the Board of Trustees.
   During any period when disaster threatens or when the Village has been
struck by disaster, within the definition of this Chapter, the Mayor or the
Village Manager/Director of the Emergency Management Agency may promulgate such
regulations as deemed necessary to protect life and property and preserve
critical resources. Such regulations may include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      1.   Regulations prohibiting or restricting the movement of vehicles in
order to facilitate the work of emergency management personnel or to facilitate
the mass movement of persons from critical areas within or without the Village;
      2.   Regulations pertaining to the movement of persons from areas deemed
to be hazardous or vulnerable to disaster;
      3.   Such other regulations necessary to preserve public peace, health
and safety;
      4.   Regulations promulgated in accordance with the authority above will
be given widespread circulation by proclamations published and expressed by
newspaper, radio and televised media.
   C.   Emergency Locations; Governmental Powers: Whenever, due to an emergency
resulting from the effects of natural or manmade disaster or hostile act or the
anticipated effects thereof, it becomes imprudent, inexpedient or impossible to
conduct the affairs of local government at the regular or usual place or
places, the Village Board may meet at any place within or without the Village
limits on the call of the presiding officer or any two (2) members of such
governing body and shall proceed to establish and designate by ordinance,
resolution or other manner alternate or substitute sites or places as the
emergency temporary location or locations of government where all, or any part
of, the public business may be transacted and conducted during the emergency
situation. Such sites or places may be within or without the territorial limits
of the Village and may be within or without this State.
   During the period when the public business is being conducted at the
emergency temporary location or locations, the governing body and other
officers of the Village shall have and possess and shall exercise, at such
location or locations, all of the executive, legislative and judicial powers
and functions conferred upon such body and officers by or under the laws of
this State. Such powers and functions may be exercised in the light of the
exigencies of the emergency situation without regard to or compliance with
time-consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law and pertaining
thereto, and all acts of such body and officers shall be valid and binding as
if performed within the territorial limits of their Village.
   D.   Continuity in Office: In the event that, at the time or as a
consequence of any disaster or occurrence described in this Chapter, the Mayor
and the Deputy Mayor shall be absent, killed or rendered incapable of
performing the duties of such office, such office shall be filled until such
time as a successor can be selected in the manner prescribed by law, in the
following line of succession: the remaining members of the Village Board of
Trustees based on tenure, the Village Manager, the Director of Finance, the
Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the Village Clerk.
   In the event that, at the time or as a consequence of any disaster or
occurrence described in this Chapter, the incumbent of any Municipal Office
shall be absent, killed or rendered incapable of performing the duties of such
Office, such Office shall be filled, until such time as a successor can be
selected in the manner prescribed by law.
§ 2-4-9 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY AND EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN.
   A.   A comprehensive Emergency Operations Plan shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Board of Trustees upon the recommendations of
the Mayor. In the preparation of this Plan as it pertains to Village
organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities and
personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent. When approved, it shall be the duty of the Village Manager/
Director of the Emergency Management Agency, all departments and all employees
to perform the functions assigned by the Plan and to maintain their portion of
the Plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The Emergency Operations
Plan shall be considered supplementary to this Chapter and have the effect of
law whenever a disaster has been proclaimed.
   B.   The Mayor shall prescribe in the Emergency Operations Plan those
positions within the disaster organization, in addition to their own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
will designate and keep on file with the Village a current list of three (3)
persons as successors to the position. The list will be in order of succession
and will as nearly as possible designate persons best capable of carrying out
all assigned duties and functions.
   C.   Each department head assigned responsibility in the Emergency
Operations Plan shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions
assigned therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
Village employees and volunteers. Each department head shall formulate the
operational plan for their department which, when approved, shall be an annex
to and part of the Emergency Operations Plan.
   D.   Amendments to the Emergency Operations Plan shall be submitted to the
Mayor. If approved, the Mayor will submit the amendments to the Board of
Trustees with recommendations for approval. Such amendments shall take effect
ten (10) days from the date of approval unless action is taken by the Board of
Trustees disapproving the Mayor’s submission. In the event an amendment is
pending at the time that a disaster is proclaimed under provisions of this
Chapter, the amendment will remain effective unless specifically revoked by the
Board of Trustees.
   E.   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within the Village government, the Mayor is authorized to seek
assistance from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when
of a supervisory nature, shall also grant authority for the persons so assigned
to carry out such duties prior to, during and after a disaster. The Village may
accept such services from persons outside of government on a volunteer basis.
Such persons shall be enrolled as emergency management volunteers in
cooperation with the heads of departments affected.
   F.   Some of the duties ascribed to the Mayor in this Section will
ordinarily be handled as a matter of routine by the Emergency Management
Agency’s Director or Coordinator, but the responsibility and authority stem
from and remain with the Mayor.
§ 2-4-10 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency who are
employees or officers of the Municipality, if called for training by the State
Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, shall receive for time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such Municipal employees or officers shall receive
for such training time such compensation as may be established by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
§ 2-4-11 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the State to the Municipality for expenses incident to
training members of the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency as
prescribed by the State Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the Municipality in response to a call by the Governor or
State Director of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, as provided by law,
and any other reimbursement made by the State incident to emergency management
activities as provided by law.
§ 2-4-12 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Coordinator of
the Emergency Management Agency, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary
to place the Municipality in a position to more effectively combat any disaster
and to protect the public health and safety, protect property and provide
emergency assistance to disaster victims.
   In the event of disaster, the Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency
is authorized on behalf of the Municipality to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such emergency management
purposes, in view of the crisis, without regard to statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to Municipal contracts or
obligations as authorized by the Illinois Emergency Act of 1992, being 20 ILCS
3305; provided that if the Mayor and Board of Trustees meet at such time, the
Coordinator shall be subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that
body.
§ 2-4-13 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Municipal Emergency
Management Agency shall, before entering upon their duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Director of the Emergency
Management Agency:
 
I, , a member of the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency, do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and
allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the
State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof,
both public and private, against all enemies foreign and domestic; that I will
take this obligation freely, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about
to enter, and I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I
nor have I ever been a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State
by force or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Elk
Grove Village Emergency Management Agency, I will not advocate nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence.
 
§ 2-4-14 OFFICE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in the Village Hall, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village Board to be used as office
space for the Elk Grove Village Emergency Management Agency.
§ 2-4-15 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village Board may have an appropriation for emergency management
purposes in the manner provided by law and may levy a tax in addition to all
other taxes for emergency management purposes pursuant to the Illinois
Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.; providing, however, that any tax
rate limitation or any other substantive limitations as to tax levies in the
Illinois Municipal Code shall not be applicable since the Village of Elk Grove
Village is a home rule municipality.
§ 2-4-16 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant to
the authority contained herein or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any
member of the Emergency Management Agency as herein defined in the enforcement
of the provisions of this Chapter or any regulations or plan issued hereunder.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated hereunder, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00),
and costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a period of not more than six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court.
   C.   Abatement by Injunction: In addition to the above penalties, the
Village may pursue, by injunctive relief, an abatement of any activity by any
individual who threatens, interferes or hampers the enforcement of this
Chapter.
CHAPTER 5: BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
2-5-1   Board Created; Membership; Appointment; Terms; Quorum
   
2-5-2   Duties
   
2-5-3   Suspension, Discharge, Appeals; Hearing
§ 2-5-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; QUORUM.
   There shall be a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners as provided by law
(65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.) which shall consist of three (3) members whose
terms shall be for three (3) years. Each year and following the appointment or
reappointment of a Board member, the Board shall elect a Chairperson and a
Secretary to serve for that year. A majority of the Board shall constitute a
quorum to conduct all business.
§ 2-5-2 DUTIES.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all sworn employees
of the Fire and Police Departments, except the appointments of the Chiefs,
Deputy Chiefs, Commanders and Battalion Chiefs of the respective Departments.
(See Section
5-1-2 of this Code for Fire Chief and Section
6-1-3A for Police Chief.) All other appointments and promotions of each
Department, other than that of the lowest rank, shall be from the rank next
below that to which the appointment is made.
§ 2-5-3 SUSPENSION, DISCHARGE, APPEALS; HEARING.
   The Board shall have the authority to conduct hearings on charges filed
against a sworn officer of the Fire or Police Department or hear appeals of
suspensions issued by the Chief of each Department in the manner required by
law and shall have the authority to suspend an officer for a period not
exceeding thirty (30) days or discharge an officer from either Department as
provided by law.
CHAPTER 6: PENSION BOARDS
Section
Article A. Police Pension Fund Board
   
2-6A-1   Board Created; Membership; Appointment and Election
   
2-6A-2   Duties
   
2-6A-3   Budgetary Recommendations
Article B. Firefighters’ Pension Fund Board
   
2-6B-1   Board Established; Membership; Organization; Terms
   
2-6B-2   Duties
   
2-6B-3   Budgetary Recommendations
**** ARTICLE A. POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD ****
§ 2-6A-1 BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND ELECTION.
   There is hereby established a board of trustees of the Police Pension Fund
known as the Police Pension Board which shall consist of two (2) members
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees as
well as two (2) active participants of the fund who shall be elected by and
from the active police force of the Village, and one retired Department member
who shall be elected by and from the beneficiaries of the Pension. The Police
Pension Board shall appoint a President and Secretary, establish rules and
regulations and meet at regularly scheduled intervals. They shall have terms as
provided by law (40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
§ 2-6A-2 DUTIES.
   The Police Pension Board shall hear and decide all applications for relief
or pensions and to direct payment of pensions and other benefits. Investments
are managed by the Illinois Police Officers’ Pension Investment Fund as
required by law (40 ILCS 5/3-132).
§ 2-6A-3 BUDGETARY RECOMMENDATIONS.
   On or before February 1 of each year, the Police Pension Board shall make a
budgetary recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Trustees as to the necessary
appropriation and levy to be made in the succeeding fiscal year so that the
Village may fulfill its statutory commitment to the Police Pension Fund. Said
recommendation shall be made only after consulting a designated consultant as
may be provided for or upon the recommendation of the Village Manager, in
consultation with the Director of Finance.
**** ARTICLE B. FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND BOARD ****
§ 2-6B-1 BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; ORGANIZATION; TERMS.
   There is hereby established a board of trustees of the Firefighter’s Pension
Fund known as the Fire Pension Board which shall consist of two (2) members
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees as
well as two (2) active participants of the fund, and one retired Department
member – said three (3) members to be selected as provided by law. The Fire
Pension Board shall appoint a President and Secretary, establish rules and
regulations and meet at regularly scheduled intervals. They shall have terms as
provided by law.
§ 2-6B-2 DUTIES.
   The Fire Pension Board shall hear and decide all applications for relief or
pensions and to direct payment of pensions and other benefits. Investments are
managed by the Illinois Firefighters’ Pension Investment Fund as required by
law.
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 40 ILCS 5/4-122 et seq.
§ 2-6B-3 BUDGETARY RECOMMENDATIONS.
   On or before February 1 of each year, the Fire Pension Board shall make a
budgetary recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Trustees as to the necessary
appropriation and levy to be made in the succeeding fiscal year so that the
Village may fulfill its statutory commitment to the Firefighters’ Pension Fund.
Said recommendation shall be made only after consulting a designated consultant
as may be provided for or upon the recommendation of the Village Manager, in
consultation with the Director of Finance.
CHAPTER 7: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
2-7-1   Election of Members; Terms; Vacancies
   
2-7-2   Powers and Duties
§ 2-7-1 ELECTION OF MEMBERS; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   There shall be elected a Library Board of Directors consisting of seven (7)
members who shall serve for six (6) years as is provided by statute (75 ILCS 5/
2-2).
   In the event of a vacancy on the Library Board of Directors, the remaining
Directors shall choose a person to fill that vacancy until the next election.
§ 2-7-2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   A.   Generally: The Library Directors shall have such powers and duties as
that given to them by statute.
   B.   Rules and Regulations: The Library Board of Directors shall have the
power to make reasonable rules and regulations governing the use of the library
and may exclude from the library any person or persons who willfully and
continually violate such rules.
   C.   Reports: The Library Board of Directors shall make a report of the
financial condition of the library within fifteen (15) days after the
termination of the fiscal year of the Village. This report shall be filed with
the Board of Trustees and shall be made in the manner provided by law. A copy
of this report shall also be filed with the Illinois State Library at the same
time, as is also provided by law. The Library Board shall also make such other
reports as may be requested from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees.
CHAPTER 8: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
Section
   
2-8-1   Commission Created; Purpose
§ 2-8-1 COMMISSION CREATED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a Foreign Fire Insurance Board of the Village.
The members of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall consist of seven (7)
members, one of whom shall be the Fire Chief; the remaining six (6) voting
members, who shall be elected at large by the sworn members of the Fire
Department. All sworn members of the Department shall be eligible to vote for
and be elected as officers of the Board. The members of the Board shall
annually elect officers. These officers shall be a Chairperson and a Treasurer.
This Board shall exercise the powers in accordance with the agreement entered
into between the Village and the Foreign Fire Insurance Board on file with the
Village Clerk’s Office. The members of the Foreign Fire Insurance Board shall
serve without compensation.
CHAPTER 9: YOUTH COMMITTEE
Section
   
2-9-1   Committee Created; Membership; Appointment
   
2-9-2   Organization
   
2-9-3   Function; Meetings
   
2-9-4   Compensation
§ 2-9-1 COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Youth Committee that shall consist of Village
Trustees and Village residents. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The committee may enlist
the help and support of public and parochial sixth through eighth grade
students as needed or high school students to assist the Committee in the
performance of Committee functions and activities.
§ 2-9-2 ORGANIZATION.
   The Committee shall have a Chairperson and Secretary, which positions shall
be filled by the Trustee members of the committee, and who shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
§ 2-9-3 FUNCTION; MEETINGS.
   The Youth Committee shall meet once every other month or such additional
times as is agreed upon by the Committee. The purpose and function of the Youth
Committee is to promote youth programs and youth participation within the
Village.
§ 2-9-4 COMPENSATION.
   No member shall receive compensation for any service performed.
CHAPTER 10: PARADE COMMITTEE
Section
   
2-10-1   Committee Created; Purpose
   
2-10-2   Membership; Appointment; Term
   
2-10-3   Organization
   
2-10-4   Compensation
§ 2-10-1 COMMITTEE CREATED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a Parade Committee of the Village for the
purpose of organizing, overseeing and establishing guidelines and procedures
for the annual Village parade.
§ 2-10-2 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Parade Committee shall consist of nonsworn members, one of whom shall be
a member of the Village Board, and each member shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for a term of four (4)
years.
§ 2-10-3 ORGANIZATION.
   The Committee shall have a Chairperson, which position shall be filled by
the member of the Village Board serving on the Committee, and who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Committee
shall appoint such subcommittees as it may deem necessary. All meetings shall
be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such date and time as such
Committee may determine. All meetings shall be opened to the public.
§ 2-10-4 COMPENSATION.
   No member shall receive compensation for any service performed.
TITLE 3: BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1 .   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
2 .   OCCUPATION AND OTHER BUSINESS TAXES
      
3 .   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
4 .   AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION
      
5 .   FOOD RELATED BUSINESS
      
6 .   RETAIL BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS
      
7 .   CHILDCARE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
      
8 .   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
9 .   CONTRACTORS
      
10 .   SCAVENGERS, SCRAP DEALERS AND COLLECTION BOXES
      
11 .   HOTELS AND EXTENDED STAY HOTELS
      
12 .   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
13 .   CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE, PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE AND CONSUMER
PROTECTION
      
14 .   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
15 .   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS/CRIME FREE HOUSING
      
16 .   PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL SALES DEALERS
      
17 .   VIDEO GAMING
      
18 .   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
19 .   CANNABIS DISPENSARY
      
20 .   PRIVATE SOLAR ARRAYS FOR PUBLIC ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
      
21 .   PRIVATE ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS FOR PUBLIC USE
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
3-1-1   Purpose and Jurisdiction
   
3-1-2   License Required
   
3-1-3   Applications for Licenses
   
3-1-4   Investigation of Applicants; Granting of License
   
3-1-5   Term of License
   
3-1-6   License Fees
   
3-1-7   Tags or Stickers for Vehicles and Machines
   
3-1-8   Renewal and Replacement of Licenses
   
3-1-9   Nontransferability of License; Unlawful Use
   
3-1-10   License to Be Posted; Destruction, Removal of License
   
3-1-11   Building and Premises
   
3-1-12   Location
   
3-1-13   Nuisance Businesses
   
3-1-14   Inspections and Analyses
   
3-1-15   Inspections of Specific Businesses/reinspection Service Fee
   
3-1-16   License Review Commission; Revocation of License
   
3-1-17   Violations and Penalties
   
3-1-18   Exemptions from Provisions
   
3-1-19   Conflicts with Cook County Minimum Wage Ordinance and Cook County
Earned Sick Leave Ordinances
§ 3-1-1 PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION.
   This Title is designed to provide for the means whereby the Village may
render the necessary inspections and services to businesses, occupations and
activities in order to promote, protect and safeguard the public safety, health
and welfare of the citizens of Elk Grove Village and to enable the maintaining
of accurate records of such establishments located within the corporate limits
of the Village.
§ 3-1-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, maintain,
operate, carry on or manage a business, occupation or activity, either by
themself or through an agent, employee or partner, for which a license is
required by any provision of this Code without first having obtained a license
for such business, occupation or activity.
§ 3-1-3 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   Except where otherwise expressly provided, all businesses, occupations,
trades and activities desiring a license required in or by this Code shall make
application for that purpose to the Finance Department, which application shall
set forth the full name and address of the applicant or applicants; the type or
kind of license desired; the location or proposed location of the place of
business, occupation, trade or activity for which the license is sought; and
such other information which may be required by this Code.
   The Finance Department shall maintain records of all applications for
licenses which, under provisions of this Code, are required to be filed with
that Department.
§ 3-1-4 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS; GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   Where a provision of this Code authorizes or necessitates an investigation
by any department or official of the Village before the issuance of a license,
then the Finance Department shall transmit, within forty-eight (48) hours of
the time an application for such license is received, to each department or
official charged with the investigation, such information as may be necessary
in order that the investigation may be made. Each such department head or
official shall, within ten (10) working days after receiving such information,
make any necessary investigation and shall report the results thereof to the
Finance Department, thereby recommending the approval or disapproval of the
issuance of such license.
   In addition, in all cases, the Director of Finance or his/her designated
agent shall review applicable Village records to determine whether the license
applicant requesting the license has any outstanding financial obligations to
the Village. If any unpaid financial obligations exist, that amount, plus any
interest or applicable penalties which may have accrued thereon, shall be added
to the license fee herein imposed. Upon payment of the license fee, together
with all added costs and fees, the license shall be issued to the individual
requesting same. Should the license applicant dispute the existence of all or
any part of the outstanding obligation and can provide evidence with respect
thereto to the Director of Finance or his/her designated agent, then and in
such case the Director of Finance, with approval by the Village Manager, is
authorized to settle and compromise the amount due, in whole or in part. The
decision of the Director of Finance and the Village Manager shall be deemed
final.
   In all cases where licenses are required to be obtained and the requirements
of this Code are complied with, such licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and
attested to by the Village Clerk, except where provision is expressly made for
the granting of licenses by some other official of the Village.
§ 3-1-5 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Except where otherwise expressly provided in this Code to the contrary, no
license shall be granted for a period longer than one (1) year, and all
licenses shall commence on August 1 and expire on July 31 of each year.
   When an applicant of a new business, occupation or activity requires a
license after expiration of six (6) months (February 1) of the current license
year, the license fee shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee as set
forth in Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter. When an applicant of a new business, occupation or
activity requires a license after expiration of ten (10) months (June 1) of the
current license year, the licensee shall pay the annual fee as set forth in
Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter, and the license shall be set to expire at the end of the
following licensing year. Any licensee who ceases to do business during the
first four (4) months of any license year, shall, upon request made no later
than the end of said licensing year, receive a refund of fifty percent (50%) of
the license fee paid for that license year.
   It shall be the duty of the Finance Department, from twenty (20) to sixty
(60) days prior to the expiration of the license period, to cause a written
notice to be mailed to each licensee directing the attention of such licensee
to the fact that a new license will be required on the day following the
expiration of their existing license and directing their attention also to the
amount of the license fee and to the penalty for failure to procure a license
in accordance with the provisions of this Code governing the issuance of such
license. Failure on the part of the Finance Department to cause such notice to
be mailed to each licensee shall not, however, excuse the licensee from a
failure to secure a license or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense to
a suit brought by the Village to recover the penalty for a violation of the
provisions of this Code under which the licensee is required to obtain a
license.
   All license fees shall be due and payable before August 1 of each year. Any
person, firm or corporation who fails to pay the applicable fee on or before
September 1 of each year shall pay the fee established in Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter plus a late payment fee of an additional fifty percent
(50%) of the established fee, provided that the amount of the late payment fee
shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition, the Director of
Finance or his/her designated agent shall review applicable Village records to
determine whether the license applicant has any outstanding financial
obligations including the nonpayment of any required business license for prior
year or years to the Village. If unpaid financial obligations exist, that
amount, plus any interest or penalties which may have accrued thereon, shall be
added to the license fee herein imposed. No license shall be issued until all
fees provided for herein are paid.
§ 3-1-6 LICENSE FEES.
   The specific enumerated businesses, occupations and activities below shall
pay a fee for licenses as follows:
Type of Business/Operation Annual Fee Unless Otherwise Indicated
                                                                      Annual Fee
Type of Business/Operation                                            Unless
                                                                      Otherwise
                                                                      Indicated
Alarm systems (Chapter 3-12)                                          $25.00
Amusement, Entertainment & Recreation (Article 3-4A)                  $100.00
Athletic exhibitions (Article 3-4B)                                   $150.00/
                                                                      event
Cannabis Dispensary (Chapter 3-19)                                    $250
Cigarette and tobacco dealers, alternative nicotine products (Article $1,000.00
3-6B)
                                                                      $250.00
Collection boxes (Article 3-10C)                                      plus
                                                                      $200.00 per
                                                                      box
Construction Contractors (Article 3-9A)                               $100.00
Daycare centers (Section 3-7A-1)                                      $325.00
Daycare homes (Section 3-7A-2)                                        $100.00
                                                                      
Food Related Businesses (Article 3-5B)                                $100.00
Food vending vehicles (Article 3-5D)                                  $100.00/
                                                                      vehicle
Food/beverage vending machines (Article 3-5E)                         $50.00/
                                                                      machine
General Retail Business (Article 3-6A)                                $100.00
Hotels and Extended Stay Hotels (Chapter 3-11):                       $2,500.00
Liquor (Chapter 3-3):                                                  
   Class A                                                         $2,900.00
   Class AA (late closing)                                         $1,500.00
   Class AAA                                                       $1,000.00
   Class AB                                                        $150.00
   Class B                                                         $2,700.00
   Class D                                                         $2,100.00
   Class DD                                                        $1,500.00
   Class E                                                         $2,500.00
   Class F                                                         No fee
                                                                      established
   Class G                                                         No fee
                                                                      established
   Class H                                                         $1,000.00
   Class MB                                                        $2,000.00
   Class MT                                                        $1,000.00
   Class RR                                                        $2,700.00
   Class WBM                                                       $1,000.00
Massage establishment (Chapter 3-14)                                  $500.00
Pawnbrokers and precious metal sales dealers (Chapter 3-16)           $1,000.00
Peddlers (Article 3-8A):                                               
   With vehicles                                                   $100.00
   Without vehicles                                                $50.00
Private electrical vehicle charging stations for public use (Chapter  $1,000.00
3-21)
Private solar array (Chapter 3-20)                                    $1,000.00
Residential rental units/crime free housing license (Chapter 3-15):    
   Annual license fees:                                             
      Apartments, Condominiums                                  $50.00 per
                                                                      unit
      Single-family residence, Attached Single-family resident/ $100.00 per
Townhome                                                              unit
                                                                      
   Reinspection fees:                                               
      First reinspection                                        Free of
                                                                      charge
      Second reinspection                                       $100.00
      Third reinspection                                        $150.00
      Fourth reinspection and more                              $500.00
                                                                      See
   Late charge                                                     Subsection
                                                                      3-15-8C of
                                                                      this Title
Restaurants - floor area in square feet* (Article 3-5C):
*The computation and the definitions therefor for total floor area     
are provided in Chapter 5, Article C of this Title.
   0—2,500                                                       $200.00
   2,501—5,000                                                   $250.00
   5,001—7,500                                                   $300.00
   7,501—10,000                                                  $350.00
   10,001—15,000                                                 $400.00
   15,001 or over                                                  $500.00
                                                                      See Section
Scavengers (Article 3-10A)                                            3-10A-3 of
                                                                      this Title
Scrap dealers (Article 3-10B)                                         $250.00
                                                                      
Shared Kitchen Owner (Article 3-5F)                                   $1,000.00
Shared Kitchen User (Article 3-5F)                                    $100.00
                                                                      See Section
Small wireless facilities (Chapter 3-18)                              3-18-7 of
                                                                      this Title
Temporary general retail business (Article 3-6C)                      $35.00
Video gaming (Chapter 3-17)                                           $1,000.00
 
   The following taxes are remitted directly to the Village by the applicable
tax payer:
 
Tax Type                 Tax Rate
Food and beverage tax    1 percent of purchase price
Hotel/Motel tax          6% of total room rate
Real estate transfer tax $3.00 for every $1,000.00 value or fraction thereof
 
§ 3-1-7 TAGS OR STICKERS FOR VEHICLES AND MACHINES.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is a basis of a license fee, the
Finance Department shall furnish each licensee with a tag or sticker for each
vehicle covered by the license; such tag or sticker shall be applied to the
vehicle. The Finance Department shall furnish each licensee with a tag or
sticker for each food/beverage vending machine. The licensee shall post each
such tag or sticker in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle or machine
while it is in use, or available for use.
§ 3-1-8 RENEWAL AND REPLACEMENT OF LICENSES.
   A.   Renewal of Licenses: Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
Code to the contrary, the Finance Department may renew any license at the
beginning of a new license period upon proper application and payment of the
required fee. The procedure for the application, granting and issuance of a
renewed license shall be the same as for the application, granting and issuance
of the first license.
   B.   Replacement of License or Insignia: In case any licensee who has been
furnished a license certificate for a given location in accordance with the
provisions of this Code shall lose said license certificate, the Finance
Department shall authorize the issuance of a duplicate certificate upon the
execution of an affidavit of loss by such licensee. Any licensee issued a tag,
sticker or like insignia other than a license certificate for a given location
who shall lose said tag, sticker or insignia shall be required to purchase a
new tag, sticker or insignia at the original cost.
§ 3-1-9 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to transfer, loan or give away a
license certificate or any license plate, tag, badge, sticker or other insignia
issued to such licensee. It shall also be unlawful for any person to use or
display any license certificate or license plate, tag, badge, sticker or other
insignia which has been unlawfully acquired.
§ 3-1-10 LICENSE TO BE POSTED; DESTRUCTION, REMOVAL OF LICENSE.
   A.   Display of License: It shall be the duty of any person conducting a
licensed business, occupation, trade or activity in the Village to keep their
license at all times in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business, occupation, trade or activity.
   B.   Destruction, Removal of License:
      1.   No person shall add to, alter, deface, forge or counterfeit any
license certificate or license plate, tag, badge, sticker or other insignia
which has been or is being used by the Village.
      2.   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove or carry away,
without the consent of the owner, any license certificate or license plate,
tag, badge, sticker or other insignia which has been issued by the Village;
except, that said certificate or said plate, tag, badge, sticker or other
insignia may be removed after the licensed business, occupation or activity has
been discontinued or the licensed premises has been abandoned.
      3.   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Finance Department or its
duly authorized representatives from removing any license certificate or
license plate, tag, badge, sticker or other insignia from the possession of a
former licensee, their premises, any vehicle or any machine when said license
has been revoked under the provisions of this Code.
§ 3-1-11 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, occupation,
trade or activity if the premises and buildings to be used for such purpose do
not fully comply with all applicable provisions of this Code, the Elk Grove
Village Zoning Ordinance and the currently adopted codes of Elk Grove Village.
(See Title 8, Chapter 3 of this Code.)
§ 3-1-12 LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business, occupation, trade or activity may be
changed, provided twenty (20) days’ notice thereof is given to the Finance
Department, and provided, that all building and zoning requirements of the
Village and the provisions of this Code are complied with in accordance with
the originally approved application.
§ 3-1-13 NUISANCE BUSINESSES.
   No business, occupation, trade or activity shall be conducted or operated in
such a manner or nature so as to amount to a health hazard or public nuisance.
§ 3-1-14 INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES.
   A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business, occupation or activity are provided for or
required by this Code, or are reasonably necessary to secure a compliance with
any ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty
of the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to
admit thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any employee of the
Village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized employee of the Village
requesting the same, efficient samples of such material or commodity for such
analysis upon request.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may revoke the license of any
licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the Village who refuses to
permit any such employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such
sample to make the inspection or take an adequate sample of the said commodity
or who interferes with such employee while in the performance of their duty in
making such inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such
cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of
the premises in the name of the Village stating that such inspection or sample
is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the
sample.
§ 3-1-15 INSPECTIONS OF SPECIFIC BUSINESSES/REINSPECTION SERVICE FEE.
   The Department of Community Development shall be responsible for initial
inspections and any required reinspections of food vending vehicles, automatic
food/beverage vending machines, food dealers, food processors, restaurants,
food caterers, daycare centers, food delivery vehicles and daycare homes. The
purpose of these inspections is to determine eligibility for the issuance of a
business license or any renewal thereof and for determining continuing
compliance with applicable Village licensing regulations and codes during the
license year. To that end, when the Department of Community Development
determines, after an initial inspection, that additional reinspection(s) are
required due to noncompliance, one initial reinspection will be made without
charge. If a second reinspection is required, the permittee/licensee will be
assessed a noncompliance service fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for said
second reinspection. If a third reinspection is required, the permittee/
licensee will be assessed a noncompliance service fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for said third reinspection. If a fourth reinspection is
required, the permittee/licensee will be assessed a noncompliance service fee
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for said fourth reinspection. Payments must
be made in full prior to the license or any renewal thereof being issued or
within thirty (30) days from the invoice date for inspections occurring during
the license year. Failure to make full payment as required will serve as
grounds to deny the issuance of such license or permit, or any renewal thereof,
or result in the suspension or revocation of any license or permit in effect at
the time payment is required. Nothing herein shall be deemed a waiver on the
part of the Village from proceeding with suspending or revoking any business
license as a result of repeated violations or failure to comply with applicable
Village codes and regulations.
§ 3-1-16 LICENSE REVIEW COMMISSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   There is hereby established a License Review Commission which shall consist
of the Mayor as the License Review Commissioner and two (2) Trustees appointed
by the Mayor as Commission members. It shall be the duty of the Commission
members to assist the Commissioner in the exercise of the powers and the
performance of the duties of the Commissioner. Final authority for decisions
concerning any licensee issued by the Village shall remain exclusively with the
License Review Commissioner.
   Upon recommendation of any department responsible for the regulation of
licenses, the Village Manager may initiate revocation proceedings as a result
of continued violations of this Title or for nonpayment of required license
fees or charges. The Village Manager shall notify the License Review Commission
of their intent to cause said license to be revoked.
   Any such license may be revoked by the License Review Commission at any time
during the life of such license for cause; provided, however, that no license
shall be revoked hereunder until a hearing is held before the License Review
Commission. Notice of any hearing must be provided to the licensee at least ten
(10) days prior to the date set for such hearing. The License Review Commission
shall conduct the hearing and hear all evidence relevant to the request for
revocation. The License Review Commission shall render a decision within five
(5) days of the License Review Commission finding that the licensee has
violated applicable ordinances or statutes relating to its license. In lieu of
a revocation, the License Review Commission may suspend the license for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days and/or levy a fine against the licensee
in an amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
§ 3-1-17 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
commercial establishment, business and/or commercial enterprise or activity as
herein enumerated, as otherwise provided herein, without first having obtained
a license therefor.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Title shall be subject to
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   In addition to any penalties provided for herein, the Village shall have the
right to proceed by injunction in the Third District branch of the Circuit
Court of Cook County, Illinois, to enjoin the operation of any business which
is operating without a license as required herein or which is operating in
violation of the applicable regulations and ordinances of the Village and the
continuous operation of which is likely to be injurious to the health, welfare
and well being of the occupants or patrons of said business establishment.
§ 3-1-18 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The terms and provisions of this Title shall not be made applicable to a
building or premises or portion thereof, the principal use of which is for the
practice of medicine or dentistry or similar type of medical professional
personal services, the practice of law, financial institution, the operation of
general office activities not involving retail sales or services upon or to the
persons visiting the premises or any other business, the regulation of which is
conducted exclusively by the State and where specific preemption of home rule
units of government from such regulation has been duly enacted by statute.
§ 3-1-19 CONFLICTS WITH COOK COUNTY MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE AND COOK COUNTY
EARNED SICK LEAVE ORDINANCES.
   A.   Employers located within the Village shall comply with all applicable
Federal and/or State laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may
exist from time to time with regard to both the payment of minimum hourly wages
and paid sick leave. Employee eligibility for paid sick leave and minimum
hourly wages shall also be in compliance with all applicable Federal and/or
State laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may exist from time to
time.
   B.   Except for incentive agreements entered into directly between employers
and the County of Cook, including, but not limited to, 6b Tax Classification
status incentives, no additional obligations with regard to paid sick leave, or
minimum hourly wages, including, without limitation, any additional obligations
by ordinance adopted by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners, shall apply
to employers located within the Village.
   C.   For the purposes of this Section, the term “employee” means an
individual hired to work by an employer regardless of the number of persons the
employer employs.
   D.   For the purposes of this Section, the term “employer” means any
individual, partnership, association, corporation, limited liability company,
business trust or any person or group of persons that gainfully employs at
least one (1) person. The term “employer” shall not include:
      1.   The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States;
      2.   An Indian tribe or a corporation wholly owned by an Indian tribe;
      3.   The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
      4.   The government of any municipality.
CHAPTER 2: OCCUPATION AND OTHER BUSINESS TAXES
Section
   
3-2-1   Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ and Service Occupation Tax
   
3-2-2   Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
   
3-2-3   Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
   
3-2-4   Food and Beverage Tax
   
3-2-5   Real Estate Transfer Tax
   
3-2-6   Hotel/Motel Use Tax
   
3-2-7   Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
3-2-8   Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
3-2-9   Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
3-2-10   Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights
   
3-2-11   Disconnection Fee
   
3-2-12   Municipal Gas Use Tax
   
3-2-13   Municipal Electric Use Tax
   
3-2-14   Municipal Push Tax
   
3-2-15   Municipal Cannabis Retailers Occupation Tax
§ 3-2-1 HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS’ AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   A.   Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other
than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency
of the state, at retail in the Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business, in
accordance with the provisions of the Home Rule Municipal Retailers’ Occupation
Tax Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, as amended.
   B.   Municipal Service Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the Village in the business of making sales of service, at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of all tangible personal
property transferred by such service person as an incident to a sale of
service, in accordance with the provisions of the Home Rule Municipal Service
Occupation Tax Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, as amended.
   C.   Exemptions: Such home rule municipal retailers’ and service occupation
tax shall not be applicable on the sales of food for human consumption which is
to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic
beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for immediate
consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs, medical
appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles used by
diabetics.
   D.   Collection of Tax: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the Illinois Department of Revenue. The Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this Section.
§ 3-2-2 MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this Village at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
7.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report
to the State Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of “an
act in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property to purchasers for use or consumption”, approved June
29, 1933, being 35 ILCS 120/1 through 14, as amended.
   C.   Payment of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month.
§ 3-2-3 MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this Village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this state’s government in this
Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS
5/8-11-8.
   B.   Collection and Payment of Tax:
      1.   The tax provided for in this Section shall be collected from the
persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration purposes is given as
being in this Village.
      2.   The tax imposed by this Section shall be paid to the Illinois
Department of Revenue.
§ 3-2-4 FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX.
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following words or terms shall have the meanings
respectively applied to them:
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any alcohol, spirits, wine or beer as defined, set
forth and regulated in Chapter 3 of this Title which is sold at retail either
for consumption on the premises where sold or is sold in its original package
for consumption off the premises.
      PREPARED FOOD: Means and includes any solid, liquid (including both
alcoholic and nonalcoholic liquid), powder or other food substance used or
intended to be used for human consumption and which has been prepared for
immediate consumption on the premises.
      PREPARED FOOD FACILITY: An establishment subject to the licensing
requirements of this Title as a food service establishment which sells prepared
food at retail for immediate consumption on the premises whether or not such
facility is conducted along with any other use(s) in a common premises or
business establishment.
      A “prepared food facility” does not include food stores (except
facilities therein which sell prepared food and alcoholic liquor), churches,
public or private schools, boarding houses, daycare centers, nursing homes,
retirement centers or similar residential care facilities or programs for the
central preparation of meals to be delivered and consumed at private residences
of invalids or the elderly, coin operated automatic food item dispensing
machines, hospitals (except facilities therein subject to the State of Illinois
Retailers’ Occupation Tax pertaining to food sales (see Subsection
3-2-1A of this Chapter)) and facilities of not for profit associations or
corporations.
      PURCHASES AT RETAIL: To obtain for use or consumption in exchange for a
consideration, whether in the form of money, credits, barter or any other
nature, and not for resale.
      RETAIL LIQUOR FACILITY: Any establishment licensed under the provisions
of Chapter 3 of this Title.
      RETAILER: Any person who sells or offers for sale prepared food and/or
alcoholic liquor for use or consumption and not for resale.
   B.   Tax Imposed: Commencing on August 1, 1988, a tax, in addition to any
and all other taxes, is imposed upon the purchase of prepared foods and
alcoholic liquor at retail at any prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor
facility within the Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the purchase
price of such prepared food and alcoholic liquor, the ultimate incidence of and
liability for payment of which shall be borne by the purchaser thereof.
   C.   Collection of Tax: The owner and operator of each prepared food
facility and each alcoholic liquor facility within the Village shall jointly
and severally have the duty to collect and account for said tax from each
purchase at the time that the consideration for such purchase is paid.
   D.   Books and Records: The owner and operator of each prepared food
facility and each alcoholic liquor facility within the Village shall jointly
and severally have the duty to maintain complete and accurate books, records
and accounts showing the gross receipts for sales of prepared food and
alcoholic liquor and the taxes collected each day, which shall be made
available to the Village for examination and for audit by the Village upon
reasonable notice and during customary business hours.
   E.   Tax Return: The owner and the operator of each prepared food facility
and each alcoholic liquor facility within the Village shall jointly and
severally have the duty to cause to be filed a sworn return with the Director
of Finance for each such facility and for each such licensed premises located
in the Village. Said return shall be prepared and submitted on forms prescribed
by the Village. Said return shall be filed with the Village by the filing date
and at the same time intervals or frequencies as the retailers’ occupation tax
return (see Subsection
3-2-1A of this Chapter), form RR-I-A, is due to be filed with the Illinois
Department of Revenue. Said return shall also be accompanied by payment to the
Village of all taxes imposed by this Section which are due and owing for the
period covered by said return. Said return shall also be accompanied with a
copy of the return filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue for sales
within the Village covering the same reporting period.
   F.   Payment of Excess Taxes Collected: If any person collects an amount
upon a sale not subject to the tax imposed hereby but which amount is purported
to be the collection of said tax, or if a person collects an amount upon a sale
greater than the amount of the tax so imposed herein and does not, for any
reason, return the same to the purchaser who paid the same before filing the
return for the period in which such occurred, said person shall account for and
pay over those amounts to the Village along with the tax properly collected.
   G.   Late Payment Penalty: If any tax imposed by this Section is not paid
when due, a late payment penalty equal to ten percent (10%) plus interest in
the amount of one and twenty-five one-hundredths percent (1.25%) of the unpaid
tax shall be added for each month, or any portion thereof, that such tax
remains unpaid and the total of such late payment penalty shall be paid along
with the tax imposed hereby.
   H.   Confidentiality of Information: All information received by the Village
from returns filed under this Section or from any investigations conducted
under this Section shall be confidential except for official Village purposes.
   I.   Enforcement: Payment and collection of said tax and any late payment
penalty may be enforced by action in any court of competent jurisdiction and
failure to collect, account for and pay over said tax and any late payment
penalty shall be cause for suspension or revocation of any Village license
issued for such prepared food facility or alcoholic liquor facility applicable
to the premises thereof, all in addition to any other penalty in this Section.
   J.   Penalty: Any person operating a prepared food facility or an alcoholic
liquor facility within the Village failing or omitting to pay said tax when
due, or failing or omitting to collect or to account for or to pay over said
tax and any late payment penalty, or failing to maintain or allow examination
of the required records shall, in addition to any other payment or penalty
provided herein or elsewhere by law or ordinance, upon conviction, be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each such offense, and each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate violation.
§ 3-2-5 REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX.
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, whenever any of the
following words, terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Subsection:
      BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   The beneficial interest in an Illinois land trust;
         b.   The lessee interest in a ground lease (including any interest of
the lessee in the related improvements) that provides for a term of thirty (30)
or more years when all options to renew or extend are included, whether or not
any portion of the term has expired; or
         c.   The indirect interest in real property as reflected by a
controlling interest in a real estate entity.
      PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership,
joint venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, municipal
corporation, political subdivision of the State of Illinois, domestic or
foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society or any group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit
or otherwise, and the United States or any instrumentality thereof. Whenever
the term “person” is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
      RECORDATION: The recording of deeds with the Office of the Recorder of
Deeds of the County wherein the property is situated or the registration of
deeds with the Registrar of Titles of Cook County, Illinois.
      VALUE: The amount of the full, actual consideration for any transfer
covered hereunder, including the amount of any lien or liens assumed by the
grantee or purchasers.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on the transfer of title to real estate
located in the Village as evidenced by the recordation of a deed by any person
or by the delivery of any deed or assignment of interest of said real property,
whether investing the owner with the beneficial interest in or legal title to
said property or merely the possession or use thereof for any purpose or to
secure future payment of money or the future transfer of any such real
property. The tax imposed shall be three dollars ($3.00) for every one thousand
dollar ($1,000.00) value or fraction thereof as stated in the declaration.
   C.   Liability for Tax: The primary liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the grantor or seller involved in any such transaction; provided,
however, it shall be unlawful for the grantee or purchaser to accept a
conveyance if the Transfer Tax has not been paid. If the tax has not been paid
and the stamps affixed to the deed, then the grantee’s title shall be subject
to the lien provided in Subsection I of this Section and the grantee or
purchaser shall be liable for payment of the tax. The tax herein levied shall
be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   D.   Declaration of Transfer: At the time the tax is paid, there shall also
be presented to the Director of Finance, on a form prescribed by them, a
declaration signed by at least one (1) of the sellers or grantors and also
signed by at least one (1) of the purchasers or grantees involved in the
transaction or by their attorneys or agents, which declaration shall state the
full consideration for the property so transferred and shall be deemed a
confidential record by the Village Clerk. Where the declaration is signed by an
attorney or agent on behalf of sellers or buyers who have the power of
direction to deal with the title to the real estate under a land trust
agreement, the trustees being the mere repository of record legal title with a
duty of conveying the real estate only when and if directed, in writing, by the
beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of direction said attorney or
agent need only identify the land trust which is the repository of record legal
title and not the beneficiary or beneficiaries having the power of direction
under the land trust agreement.
   A signed copy of the real estate transfer declaration filed pursuant to
Section 3 of the Real Estate Transfer Act (35 ILCS 200/31-1) of the State of
Illinois shall be filed with the Village Clerk by the grantee of any deed or
assignment of beneficial interest within ten (10) days after delivery of the
deed or assignment of beneficial interest or at the time of payment of the tax
herein levied or imposed, whichever first occurs.
   No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment of beneficial interest
in real estate located in the Village without first obtaining a real estate
transfer declaration from the assignor and assignee and unless revenue stamps
in the required amount, as set forth in this Subsection, have been affixed to
the assignment.
   E.   Contents of Deeds: Every deed shall show the data of the transaction
which it evidences, the names of the grantor and grantee and a legal
description of the property to which it relates.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   Transaction Exemption: The tax imposed by this Section shall not
apply to the following transactions, provided said transaction in each case is
accompanied by a certificate setting forth the facts or such other certificate
of record or sworn statement as the Director of Finance may require with
respect to said exemption:
         a.   Transactions involving property acquired by or from any
governmental body or by any corporation, society, association, foundation or
institution organized and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or
education purposes;
         b.   Transactions in which the deeds secure debt or other obligations;
         c.   Transactions in which the deeds, without additional
consideration, confirm, correct, modify or supplement deeds previously
recorded;
         d.   Transactions in which the actual consideration is less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00);
         e.   Transactions in which the deeds are tax deeds;
         f.   Transactions in which the deeds are releases of property which is
security for a debt or other obligation;
         g.   Transactions in which deeds are partition deeds;
         h.   Transactions made pursuant to mergers, consolidations or transfer
or sales of substantially all of the assets of a corporation pursuant to plans
of reorganization;
         i.   Transactions between subsidiary corporations and their parents
for no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary
corporation’s stock;
         j.   Transactions wherein there is an actual exchange of real
property; except, that the money difference of money’s worth paid from one or
the other shall not be exempt from the tax;
         k.   Transactions representing transfers subject to the imposition of
a Documentary Stamp Tax imposed by the government of the United States; and
         l.   Transactions in which the deeds are issued to a holder of a
mortgage, as defined by 735 ILCS 5/15 pursuant to a mortgage foreclosure
proceeding or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of foreclosure.
      2.   Estate and Transfer Exemptions: The taxes imposed by this Subsection
shall not be imposed on or transferred by an executor or administrator to a
legatee, heir or distributee where the transfer is being made pursuant to will
or by intestacy. The tax provided by this Subsection shall further be exempt
where the transaction is affected by operation of law or upon delivery or
transfer in the following instances:
         a.   From a descendent to their executor or administrator;
         b.   From a minor to their guardian or from a guardian to their ward
upon attaining majority;
         c.   From an incompetent to their conservator, or similar legal
representative, or from a conservator or similar legal representative to a
former incompetent upon removal of disability;
         d.   From a bank, trust company, financial institution, insurance
company or other similar entity, or nominee, custodian or trustee therefor; to
a public officer or commission or person designated by such officer or
commission or by a court in the taking over of its assets, in whole or in part,
under State or Federal law regulating or supervising such institutions, nor
upon redelivery or retransfer by any such transferee or successor thereto;
         e.   From a bankrupt or person in receivership due to insolvency to
the trustee in bankruptcy or receiver, from such receiver to such trustee or
from such trustee to such receiver, nor upon redelivery or retransfer by any
such transferee or successor thereto;
         f.   From a transferee under Subsections F2a through F2e of this
Section, to their successor acting in the same capacity or from one such
successor to another;
         g.   From a foreign country or nation thereof to the United States or
any agency thereof, or to the government of any foreign country directed
pursuant to the authority vested in the President of the United States by
Section 5(b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act, as amended by the First War
Powers Act, being 50 USC § 4305;
         h.   From trustees to surviving, substitute, succeeding or additional
trustees of the same trust;
         i.   Upon the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety to the
survivor or survivors; and
         j.   A transfer by lease.
      3.   Fee: A processing fee in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
collected by the Director of Finance of the Village for real estate transfer
stamps issued for transactions determined to be exempt as provided for in
Subsections F1 and F2 of this Section. Upon payment of the fee, the revenue
stamp so issued shall be marked “EXEMPT” and shall be affixed to the deed or
other instrument of conveyance.
   G.   Collection of Tax; Revenue Stamps Required: The tax herein levied and
imposed shall be collected by the Director of Finance of the Village through
the sale of revenue stamps, which shall be caused to be prepared by said
Director in such quantities as the Director may from time to time prescribe.
Such revenue stamps shall be in the following design:
      Village of Elk Grove Village      Real Estate Transfer Tax   $000.00
   Such revenue stamps shall be available for sale at and during the regular
hours of the Village’s offices or at other locations designated by the Director
of Finance.
   Prior to the issuance of the revenue stamps, the Director of Finance or his/
her designated agent shall review applicable Village records to determine
whether the seller or grantor requesting the revenue stamps has any outstanding
financial obligation to the Village. If unpaid financial obligations exist,
that amount, plus any interest or penalties which may have accrued thereon,
shall be added to the Transfer Tax herein imposed. Upon payment of the tax
herein, together with all added costs and fees, the revenue stamps so purchased
shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of conveyance. Should the
seller or grantor dispute the existence of all or any part of the outstanding
obligation and can provide evidence with respect thereto to the Director of
Finance or his/her designated agent, then, and in such case, the Director of
Finance, with the approval of the Village Manager, is authorized to settle and
compromise the amount due, in whole or in part. The decision of the Director of
Finance and the Village Manager shall be deemed final.
   Any person so using and affixing a revenue stamp or stamps shall cancel it
and so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with their
initials and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs. Such markings
shall be made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or by perforating with a
machine or punch. However, the revenue stamp(s) shall not be so defaced as to
prevent ready determination of its denomination and genuineness.
   H.   Refunds:
      1.   Reinvestment: A grantor or seller who has paid to the Director of
Finance the tax provided for herein shall be entitled to a refund of two
dollars ($2.00) for every one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) value or fraction
thereof as stated in the declaration, provided any such grantor or seller meets
all of the following requirements:
         a.   They owned and occupied the dwelling on the property for which
such tax was paid as their principal residence;
         b.   They did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the dwelling or real
property sold to another person or persons;
         c.   They buy or build a single-family dwelling or condominium unit
within the Village corporate limits within one year from the payment of the tax
sought to be refunded; and
         d.   They own and occupy said single-family dwelling or condominium
unit as their principal residence.
      2.   Senior Citizens: A grantor or seller who is a senior citizen and who
has paid to the Director of Finance the tax provided for herein shall be
entitled to a onetime only refund of two dollars ($2.00) for every one thousand
dollar ($1,000.00) value or fraction thereof as stated in the declaration,
provided any such grantor or seller meets all of the following requirements:
         a.   They are sixty-five (65) years of age or older;
         b.   They owned and occupied as their principal residence the dwelling
on the property sold or transferred for more than one year prior to its sale or
transfer;
         c.   They did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the dwelling or real
property to any other person or persons; and
         d.   If such property was owned by more than one person, at least one
of such owners is sixty-five (65) years of age or older and said person has
owned and occupied the dwelling as their principal residence for more than one
year prior to its sale, and they did not rent or lease any portion(s) of the
dwelling or real property to any other person(s). In the event any co-owner who
is sixty-five (65) years of age or older dies prior to the sale of a qualifying
dwelling, the surviving co-owner who is at least sixty (60) years of age at the
time of the sale of said dwelling shall be entitled to claim the above refund.
   I.   Lien for Tax; Foreclosure: In the event a deed is filed for recordation
or there is an assignment of beneficial interest conveying real estate within
the corporate limits of the Village without the revenue stamps provided by this
Section, a lien is declared against said real estate conveyed in the amount of
the tax. The fact that the deed or assignment does not contain an Elk Grove
Village revenue stamp in an amount as required herein shall constitute
constructive notice of the lien. The lien may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose, as in cases of mortgages or mechanics’ liens. Suit to foreclose this
lien must be commenced within three (3) years after the date of recording the
deed. Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the Village from bringing
a civil action to collect the tax imposed in this Section from any person who
has the ultimate liability for payment of the same, including interest and
penalties as hereinbelow provided.
   J.   Proceeds of Tax: All proceeds of the Real Estate Transfer Tax,
including interest and penalties, shall be paid to the Village and shall be
credited to and deposited in the General Corporate Fund of the Village.
   K.   Failure to Pay Tax; Interest and Penalty:
      1.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or
any purchaser or grantee shall accept a conveyance where the tax has not been
paid, the Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village Manager, bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax, including
interest and penalties as hereinbelow provided, on behalf of the Village in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      2.   In the event of failure by any person to collect and pay to the
Director of Finance the tax required herein when the same shall be due,
interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month commencing as of the first day following the day when the tax
became due. In addition, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the tax and interest
due shall be assessed and collected against any person who shall fail to pay
the tax imposed by this Section.
   L.   Payment of Water and Sewer Charges:
      1.   The Director of Finance shall not issue a Transfer Tax stamp unless
they verify that all delinquent and current outstanding water and sewer
assessments (see Section 7-2-5 of this Code) and penalties related thereto are
paid in full. In addition, for properties not exempt under Subsection F of this
Section, a final reading must be taken by a Village employee and charges paid
prior to issuing a stamp. If the property does not have a working, remote
meter, an inside final reading is required.
      2.   For water and sewer customers with one or more delinquent payments
on their account, prior to issuing a Real Estate Transfer Tax stamp, payments
for delinquent, current and final water and sewer charges must be made by cash,
cashier’s check or money order.
§ 3-2-6 HOTEL/MOTEL USE TAX.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby levied and imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting of rooms in a hotel in
the Village or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or
renting of rooms in a hotel in the Village at a rate of six percent (6%) of the
gross rental receipts from such rental, leasing or letting. The ultimate
incidence of any liability for payment of the taxes noted in Section
3-2-6A of this Chapter shall be borne by the user, lessee or tenant of said
rooms. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and all other taxes
imposed by the Village, or by any Municipal corporation, or political
subdivision thereof.
   B.   Collection of Tax: The owner and operator of each hotel and/or motel
and the person to whom the license to operate said hotel or motel shall have
been issued by the Village, and any other persons, entities or online travel
companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or
renting of rooms in a hotel or motel shall bear, jointly and severally, the
duty to collect the tax from each user, lessee or tenant of rooms in such hotel
or motel. Every person required to collect the tax levied hereunder shall
secure said tax from the user, lessee or tenant of a room or rooms at the time
they collect the price, charge or rent to which it applies. The Village does
not exempt stays of more than 30 days or more.
   C.   Tax Return: A sworn monthly Hotel and Motel Use Tax return shall be
filed by each owner, operator or licensee, or by any other persons, entities or
online travel companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
rooms in a hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the
leasing or renting of rooms in a hotel or motel with the Director of Finance on
forms prescribed by them showing all receipts from each renting, leasing or
letting of rooms during said month. The dates upon which said monthly returns
are to be filed shall be provided by direction of the Director of Finance.
   Each return shall be accompanied by payment to the Village of all taxes due
and owing for the month covered by the return; provided, however, that the
person making said return may retain an amount of money equal to two percent
(2%) of the tax due as compensation for services rendered in the collection and
payment of such tax. Said return shall also be accompanied with a copy of the
return filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue for sales within the
Village covering the same reporting period.
   D.   Administration and Enforcement:
      1.   Enforcement: The Director of Finance is hereby designated as the
administrator and enforcer of the tax hereby imposed on behalf of the Village.
It shall be the responsibility and duty of the Director of Finance to collect
all amounts due to the Village from the owners, operators and licensees of
motels and hotels in the Village, and any other persons, entities or online
travel companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms
in a hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing
or renting of rooms in a hotel or motel.
      2.   Inspections: The Director of Finance or any person certified by them
as their agent or representative may enter the premises of any hotel or motel,
or may request access from any other persons, entities or online travel
companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or
renting of rooms in a hotel or motel for the purpose of inspection and
examination of its books and records for the proper administration of this
Section and for the enforcement of collection of the tax hereby imposed. It is
unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the Director of
Finance or their duly authorized agent or representative in the discharge of
their duties hereunder.
   E.   Interest and Penalties: In the event of failure by any hotel or motel
owner, operator or licensee and any other persons, entities or online travel
companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or
renting of rooms in a hotel or motel to collect and pay to the Director of
Finance the tax required hereunder within thirty (30) days after the same shall
be due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax at the rate of one
and one-half percent (1 1/2%) per month. In addition, a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the tax and interest due shall be assessed and collected against any
hotel or motel owner, operator or licensee and any other persons, entities or
online travel companies engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
rooms in a hotel or motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the
leasing or renting of rooms in a hotel or motel who shall fail to timely
collect and remit the tax imposed by this Section.
   F.   Proceeds: All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under
this Section, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the Treasury
of the Village and shall be credited to and deposited in the General Corporate
Fund of the Village.
   G.   Revocation or Suspension of License: In addition to any fines and
penalties herein imposed, the Director of Finance may cause a hearing before
the Mayor and Board of Trustees with respect to any hotel or motel owner,
operator or licensee and any other persons, entities or online travel companies
engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or
motel or making, booking, facilitating or servicing the leasing or renting of
rooms in a hotel or motel who has willfully evaded their responsibility to
collect the tax imposed herein for the purpose of showing cause as to whether
said person’s license should be suspended or revoked by the Village. The owner,
operator or licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard not less than five
(5) days after notice of the time and place thereof, addressed to them at their
place of business. Any suspension or revocation resulting from such hearings
shall not relieve or discharge any civil liability for the nonpayment of the
tax due.
   H.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any provision of this Section, except when otherwise specifically provided,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty five
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense, and each day a violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
§ 3-2-7 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   A.   Compliance with Provisions: It shall be unlawful for any corporation or
association not incorporated under the laws of the State of Illinois to engage
in effecting fire insurance in the Village or to transact any business of fire
insurance in the Village without fully complying with the provisions of this
Section.
   B.   Report Required: Every person acting as representative for or on behalf
of any such company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each year,
render to the Village a full, true and just account, verified by oath, of all
premiums which have been received by them on behalf of the company or
association during the year ending the preceding July 1 on such fire insurance
policies.
   C.   Fees: Any such corporation or association shall pay to the Village for
the purchase and/or maintenance of its fire equipment a sum of money equal to
two percent (2%) of the gross receipts each year received from premiums by any
and all agents of any such corporation or association or received as premiums
in any way for fire insurance policies on any property in the Village. Such
payments shall be made for the year ending July 1 of each year.
   D.   Payment of Fees: All payments under the provisions of this Section
shall be made on or before July 15 following the termination of the year for
which such payments are due.
§ 3-2-8 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
      AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in this
Municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
      DEPARTMENT: The Illinois Department of Revenue.
      GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this Municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. “Gross
charges” for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within this Municipality, and charges for that portion of the
inter-office channels provided within this Municipality. Charges for that
portion of the inter-office channel connecting two (2) or more channel
termination points, one (1) or more of which is located within the
jurisdictional boundary of this Municipality, shall be determined by the
retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total charge for the inter-
office channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of channel
termination points that are located within the jurisdictional boundary of this
Municipality and the denominator of which is the total number of channel
termination points connected by the inter-office channel. However, “gross
charge” shall not include any of the following:
         a.   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this Section, b) the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq., c) the tax
imposed by Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 USC § 4251, d)
911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the
provisions of Section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/9-221 or 220 ILCS 5/9-222 as amended, or any similar charges added to
customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
Illinois Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the Public
Utilities Act;
         b.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such Municipality;
         c.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
         d.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         e.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under Section
9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1, to the extent of
such exemption and during the period of time specified by the Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity;
         f.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
         g.   Bad debts (“bad debt” means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal Income Tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         h.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated
telecommunication devices;
         i.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS 635/1 et
seq.; or
         j.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: a)
those charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable, b) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice, and c) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
      INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either
originate or terminate outside this State.
      INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this State.
      PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the Federal and State governments, including State
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county or other political
subdivision of this State.
      PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
      RETAILER: Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail
as defined in this Section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this State in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this State. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
      RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like
Term): Any retailer having or maintaining within this State, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this State under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this State.
      SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the Federal and State
governments, and State universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
      SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems and maritime systems,
service address means the customer’s place of primary use as defined in the
mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground systems
and the like, “service address” shall mean the location of a taxpayer’s primary
use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
      TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through their agents, employees or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this Section.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private
line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. As used in this Section, “private line” means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one (1) or more specified locations to one (1) or more other
specified locations. The definition of “telecommunications” shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. “Telecommunications” shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered “telecommunications”
subject to the tax imposed under this Section. For purposes of this Section,
“prepaid telephone calling arrangements” means that term as defined in Section
2-27 of the Retailers’ Occupations Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
   B.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Imposition of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the
following acts or privileges:
         a.   The act or privilege of originating in the Municipality or
receiving in the Municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a
rate of six percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multi-municipal taxation
of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this Subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality
on that event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this Section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due
and paid in the Municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit
against any other Municipal tax;
         b.   The act or privilege of originating in the Municipality or
receiving in the Municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a
rate of six percent (6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications
purchased at retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multi-state or multi-
municipal taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under
this Subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in
another state or municipality in this State on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this Section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state or
such tax properly due and paid in a municipality in this State which was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other State or local tax in this
State;
         c.   The tax imposed by this Section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
Municipality.
      2.   Earmarked Revenues:
         a.   Three (3) of the six percent (6%) in revenues resulting from the
imposition of this Section shall be earmarked for the purposes of revitalizing
the Village’s commercial and industrial areas. Under no circumstance shall this
portion of the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax revenue be utilized
for other projects other than those established and recommended by the Business
Leaders Forum.
         b.   Two (2) of the six percent (6%) in revenues resulting from the
imposition of this Section shall be recorded in the General Fund.
         c.   One (1) of the six percent (6%) in revenues resulting from the
imposition of this Section shall be recorded in the Capital Projects Fund.
   C.   Collection of Tax by Retailers:
      1.   The tax authorized by this Section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this Section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this Section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this Section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Returns to Department: On or before the last day of every month, the
tax imposed under this Section on telecommunication retailers shall be returned
with appropriate forms and information as required by the Department pursuant
to the Illinois Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-
526, Section 5-50, being 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.) and any accompanying rules
and regulations created by the Department to implement the Act.
   E.   Resellers:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this Section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The Department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided hereinabove in this Section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this State shall not be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
   F.   Severability: If any provision of this Section, or the application of
any provision of this Section, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid,
such occurrence shall not affect other provisions of this Section, or their
application, that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid
provision or its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or
application of such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this
Section.
§ 3-2-9 LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXPAYERS’ BILL OF RIGHTS.
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following words or terms shall have the meanings
respectively applied to them:
      ACT: The “Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act”.
      CODE: Village Code.
      LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: Refers to the Director of Finance and is charged
with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead.
The authority exercised by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be
inconsistent with this Section and the Act.
      TAX: Any pecuniary burden imposed by the Village on individuals or
entities to support Village government that is not a permit or other fee, other
than infrastructure maintenance fee, is not collected or administered by a
department or agency of the State of Illinois, or is not a tax on real property
under the Illinois Property Tax Code (35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.). This shall
include, but not be limited to, any of the following taxes that may now, or in
the future be collected or administered by the Village:
         a.   Food and Beverage Tax;
         b.   Hotel/Motel Tax;
         c.   Real Estate Transfer Tax;
         d.   Telecommunications Tax;
         e.   Municipal Gas Use Tax;
         f.   Municipal Electric Use Tax;
         g.   Cable Tax.
      TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
Village.
      VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village.
   B.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the Village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is: 1) physically received by the Village on or before the due
date; or 2) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the Village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   C.   Application of Payments: Notwithstanding any provision in the Code to
the contrary, any payments designated by a taxpayer as payment of a particular
tax liability shall be applied to that taxpayer’s liabilities pertaining to the
particular tax as follows: 1) first to the interest accrued on outstanding tax
liabilities; 2) second to the outstanding tax liability; 3) third to any
penalties due on outstanding tax liabilities; and 4) fourth to current tax
liabilities.
   D.   Determination of Tax Liability: To collect overdue taxes, a notice of
determination of tax liability shall be sent to the taxpayer by registered or
certified mail within six (6) years after the calendar year when the tax was
due. However, if more than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due has been
paid, a determination notice must be sent within four (4) years after the end
of the calendar year when the tax was due.
   Any notice of determination of tax liability shall include the following:
      1.   Reason for liability;
      2.   Amount of tax, interest and penalty due on the date of the
determination and information on how interest and penalties accrue;
      3.   Procedure for appeal;
      4.   Information regarding the right of the Village to audit the
taxpayer’s books and records for a particular period and its obligation to
refund overpayments.
   E.   Appeal: Any taxpayer may within forty-five (45) days of the date of
receipt of a notice of determination of tax liability or at any time before a
current tax becomes due file a written protest and petition for a hearing
before the Local Tax Administrator to appeal the tax liability. The hearing
time and date shall be fixed by the Local Tax Administrator within fourteen
(14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition unless the taxpayer
requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the forty
five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a
final bill due and owing without further notice.
   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of
the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the due date of
the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a
written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing
a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more
than thirty (30) days after the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period.
   F.   Credits and Refunds: The Village shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   Notwithstanding any provision in this Code to the contrary, a taxpayer may
make a written claim for a credit or refund for payment of taxes, interest or
penalties paid in error for up to four (4) years after the end of the calendar
year in which the payment was made. The Village shall not grant a credit or
refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties to a
person who has not paid the amounts directly to the Village.
   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the Village.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall determine whether a credit or refund is
justified and shall respond to the taxpayer with the decision in writing within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the claim. Tax amounts paid in error shall bear
interest, as applicable, at the rate of three percent (3%) simple interest per
year.
   G.   Audit Procedures: Any request for a proposed audit pursuant to any
locally administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
Section. Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax; and
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the date
and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
fourteen (14) days after the originally designated audit during normal business
hours.
   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit conducted.
The audit shall be conducted between seven (7) and thirty (30) days from the
date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator
agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the taxpayer is unable to
comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another
date within fourteen (14) days, approved in writing, that is convenient to the
taxpayer.
   H.   Voluntary Application for Determination: For any locally imposed and
administered tax for which a taxpayer has not received notice of an audit or a
notice of determination of a tax liability, a taxpayer may file a written
application to the Local Tax Administrator for a determination of the
taxpayer’s liability pertaining to a particular tax.
   A taxpayer filing a voluntary application for determination must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%), for all
periods prior to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years
before the date of filing the application.
   A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary application may not be liable for any
additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the date the
application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and
underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax
along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment
was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the
application shall be deemed invalid and void.
   The payment of tax and interest must be made no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary application or the date agreed to by the
Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this Section must be
paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and the exhaustion of
all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local
Tax Administrator, whichever is longer.
   I.   Liens: In the first month of each year, the Local Tax Administrator
shall cause all liens against taxpayers to be reviewed. The Village shall at
its sole expense release improper liens, correct the taxpayer’s credit record
and correct any public disclosure of said lien.
   J.   Interest on Late Payments, Underpayments, Nonpayments: Notwithstanding
any provision in the Code to the contrary, any tax not paid on the date due
shall accrue interest at one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) of the amount due
for each month or part of a month the tax remains unpaid commencing on the
first day after the day on which the tax became due.
   K.   Penalties for Late Filing and Payments:
      1.   A late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due
shall be charged against any taxpayer whose tax payment is not made on or
before the date the tax is due; and
      2.   A late filing penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due
for the period in which a report or return is required to be filed shall be
charged against any taxpayer who fails to file, before the date that a
determination of liability is issued, a report or return for that period.
      3.   The penalty for failure to file within the time or manner provided
by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the Village issuing a notice of
tax delinquency or notice of tax liability shall be equal to ten percent (10%)
of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return
was required to be filed.
      4.   A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling tax ordinance.
      5.   Any penalty may be abated by the Local Tax Administrator if
reasonable cause for nonpayment or failure to file is shown.
   L.   Installment Contracts: If the Local Tax Administrator or local tax
ordinance allows installment payment agreements for delinquent tax amounts, the
Local Tax Administrator may cancel any installment contract so entered into if
the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing or fails to cure the
delinquency in the allowable time supplied by the Local Tax Administrator or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring any installment payment
agreement or contract.
   Upon written notice by the Local Tax Administrator that the payment is
thirty (30) days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) days to cure
any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the
fourteen (14) day period, the installment agreement or contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
   M.   Publication of Tax Ordinances: Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon
request.
   N.   Application: This Section shall be liberally construed and administered
to supplement all of the Village’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax
ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this Section, this Section
shall be controlling.
   O.   Severability: If any section, paragraph or provision of this Section
shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any
of the remaining provisions of this Section.
§ 3-2-10 DISCONNECTION FEE.
   A.   Fee Established: There is hereby established a disconnection fee to
offset the adverse effect over a forty (40) year period for any property or
territory which disconnects from the Village or otherwise causes said property
to be exempt or otherwise removed from the tax rolls as maintained by the
County Assessor. The fee shall be equal to four hundred one thousand nine
hundred sixty dollars ($401,960.00) per acre or portion thereof of industrial/
commercial property which is removed from the Village’s tax base by
disconnection, tax exemption or otherwise, and one hundred thirty five thousand
three hundred sixty dollars ($135,360.00) per acre or portion thereof for any
residential property which is removed from the Village’s tax base by
disconnection, tax exemption or otherwise.
   B.   Notice: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity or owner of
property who owns property in Elk Grove Village and who attempts to remove said
property from the Village’s tax base shall first notify the Village Clerk of
such removal, prior to the date the removal becomes effective. The notice shall
contain the following:
      1.   The address and property identification number (PIN) of the
property;
      2.   A plat of survey which sets forth the amount of acreage being
removed;
      3.   The name and address (if different from the property being removed)
of the owner, and in the case of a trust, the beneficiary of such trust; or in
the case of a corporation or partnership, the names of the shareholders and
partners as the case may be;
      4.   The method whereby the property is being removed from the tax base
and any documentation directly causing such property to be so removed, whether
by petitions to disconnect, court order, petitions to exempt or otherwise.
   C.   Statement of Required Fee/Time of Payment: Upon receipt of the notice
required herein, the Village Clerk in conjunction with the Department of
Finance shall calculate the fee that is due and owing to the Village, and
provide, by certified mail, a statement to the owner or agent of the owner,
setting forth the amount of the fee. Payment shall be made to the Village of
Elk Grove Village and must be received within thirty (30) days from the date
the statement is received.
   D.   Express Contract: An act of disconnection, being voluntary, shall
constitute an agreement to the terms herein and shall be binding as an express
contract.
   E.   Lien: The amount of fee, as calculated hereunder, if not paid prior
thereto, shall, on the date the removal becomes effective, be a lien upon the
property being disconnected, notice of which shall be recorded with the
Recorder of Titles of the County in which the property is located. The notice
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out a description of such property
sufficient for the identification thereof, the amount of fees due and unpaid
and the date when such unpaid fee became due. The Village may foreclose this
lien in the same manner and with the same effect as in the foreclosure of any
other lien, including foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. The lien and
right to foreclose the lien shall be in addition to and not in derogation of
any other remedy or right of recovery, in law or equity, that the Village may
have to recover money or fees due it. In the event of an action to foreclose or
recover money due for fees, the Village shall also recover costs incurred,
including a reasonable attorney fee, to be fixed by the court.
   F.   Severability: If any provision, section or portion of this Section or
its application to any person, firm, corporation or other entity or property is
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the application or validity of
any other provisions, sections or portions of this Section and, to that end,
any provisions, sections or portions of this Section are declared to be
severable.
§ 3-2-11 MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX.
   A.   Short Title: The tax imposed by this Section shall be known as the
“Municipal Gas Tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes imposed by
the Village of Elk Grove Village, the State of Illinois or any other municipal
corporation or political subdivision thereof.
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The Public Utilities Act as amended (220 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq., (1996)).
      PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in Section 3-105 of the
Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
      RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
      SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term “retailer” means
any person engaged in the business of distribution, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
   C.   Tax:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the Village that is purchased in a
Sale at Retail at the rate of five cents ($0.050) per therm.
      2.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this Section shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
      3.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser’s premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant Subsection D of this Section on or before the
payment due date of the public utility’s bill first reflecting the tax, or
directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser
if no public utility has been designated to collect the tax pursuant to
Subsection D of this Section or if the gas is delivered by a person other than
a public utility so designated.
      4.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or State of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
Village.
      5.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this Section with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all for the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the Village Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
      6.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this Section, whether as a result of mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be (i) credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this Section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment or (ii) subject to a refund if no such tax is due or to
become due; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefore shall be so credited or refunded.
      7.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this Section shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of
such amount.
   D.   Collection of Tax:
      1.   The Village Treasurer is authorized to enter into a contract for
collection of the tax imposed by this Section with any public utility providing
gas service in the Village. The contract shall include and substantially
conform with the following provisions:
         a.   The public utility will collect the tax with respect to gas
delivered by it to its customers as an independent contractor;
         b.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the Village
Treasurer no more often than once each month;
         c.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax
collections a service fee not to exceed three percent (3%) of the amounts
collected and timely remitted to the Village Treasurer;
         d.   The public utility shall not be liable to the Village for any tax
not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
         e.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon.
      2.   A public utility designated to collect the tax imposed by this
Section from its customers shall bill each customer for the tax on all gas
delivered to the customer unless: a) the customer’s use or consumption is
exempt from the tax pursuant to a duly passed and authorized ordinance of the
Village, or b) the public utility has received written notification from the
Village that the customer is exempt from the tax.
   E.   Books and Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including
original source documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or
exemption under this Section. All such books and records shall, at all times
during business hours, be subject to and available for inspection by the
Village.
§ 3-2-12 MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC USE TAX.
   A.   Short Title: The tax imposed by this Section shall be known as the
“Municipal Electric Use Tax” and is imposed in addition to all other taxes
imposed by the Village, the State of Illinois or any other municipal
corporation or political subdivision thereof.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation or any of its political subdivisions of this State or a
receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
      PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having
or maintaining within this State, directly or by a subsidiary or other
affiliate, an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission
facility, sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent or
other representative operating within this State under the authority of the
person or its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located in this State
permanently or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other
affiliate is licensed or qualified to do business in this State.
      PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 3-105 of
the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/3-105, and shall include alternative
retail electric suppliers as defined in Section 16-102 of that Act, being 220
ILCS 5/16-102.
      PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
      PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits
of the Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
      TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   C.   Tax:
      1.   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the Village’s home rule authority, and
any and all other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of
using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or
consumed within the corporate limits of the Village at the following rates,
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
         a.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.61 cents per kilowatt hour;
         b.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.40 cents per kilowatt hour;
         c.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.36 cents per kilowatt hour;
         d.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.35 cents per kilowatt hour;
         e.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
0.34 cents per kilowatt hour;
         f.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.32 cents per kilowatt hour;
         g.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.315 cents per kilowatt hour;
         h.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.31 cents per kilowatt hour;
         i.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a
month: 0.305 cents per kilowatt hour;
         j.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month: 0.300 cents per kilowatt hour.
      2.   Said tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue
measures imposed by the Village, the State or any other political subdivision
of the State.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the Constitution of the United States, the Illinois Statutes or
the Constitution of the State of Illinois.
   D.   Collection of Tax:
      1.   The tax imposed under this Section shall be collected from
purchasers by the person maintaining a place of business in this State who
delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the same manner as the
original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this Section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the Village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge, an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse them
for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing
and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the Village upon
request. For purposes of this Section, any partial payment of a billing amount
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity.
   E.   Tax Remittance and Return:
      1.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis file a return in a form
prescribed by the Finance Department. The return and accompanying remittance
shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the month during
which the tax is collected or is required to be collected under Subsection D,
“Collection of Tax”, of this Section.
      2.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax, under Subsection D,
“Collection of Tax”, of this Section, then the purchaser shall file a return in
a form prescribed by the Finance Department and pay the tax directly to the
Finance Department on or before the last day of the month following the month
during which the electricity is used or consumed.
   F.   Books and Records:
      1.   Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax
imposed by this Section, shall keep accurate books and records of its business
or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting the
transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under
this Section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection at all times during business hours of the day.
   G.   Credits and Refunds:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this Section unless
the person files a claim for refund or credit within one (1) year after the
date on which the tax was paid or remitted with the Director of Finance.
   H.   Exemptions:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the Constitution or Statutes of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of Illinois.
   I.   Government Entity Exemptions:
      1.   The tax shall not apply to any property owned in whole or in part by
the Village of Elk Grove Village.
Statutory Reference:
   Related provisions, see 220 ILCS 5/16-104
§ 3-2-13 MUNICIPAL PUSH TAX.
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases shall have the meanings
below for purposes of this Section, whether capitalized or not:
      TERMINAL OPERATOR: Any individual, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230
ILCS 40/1 et seq., as amended, and that owns, services and maintains Video
Gaming Terminals for placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop
establishments, licensed large truck stop establishments, licensed fraternal
establishments or licensed veterans establishments. With respect to this
Chapter, the terminal operator shall deemed to be an agent of the licensed
establishment.
      PERSON: Any natural individual who participates in the play of a Video
Gaming Terminal, including a firm, organization, society, foundation,
institution, partnership, association, joint stock company, joint venture,
limited liability company, public or private corporation, receiver, executor,
trustee or other representative appointed by order of any court, or any other
entity recognized by law.
      PLAY: Each individual push of the Video Gaming Terminal which initiates
the simulation provided by the Video Gaming Terminal. Play shall not include
the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the Video
Gaming Terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
      VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers, or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including but not
limited to video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the Illinois
Gaming Board utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player
may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does
not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for
amusement purposes only.
   B.   Municipal Push Tax:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, a push tax is imposed
upon any person who participates in the play of a Video Gaming Terminal that
takes place within the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village.
      2.   The rate of the tax shall be equal to one cent ($0.01) per Play on a
Video Gaming Terminal.
      3.   The Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal may separately
itemize and charge the tax imposed in this Section on each Person who plays a
Video Gaming Terminal.
      4.   The tax imposed in this Section is in addition to all other taxes
imposed by the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or political
subdivision thereof.
   C.   Registration:
      1.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal(s) located in the
Village shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the Village within
thirty (30) days after commencing such business
      2.   The application shall be submitted to the Village on the forms
provided by the Village and contain such information as reasonably required by
the Village to impose, collect and audit all amounts related to the tax imposed
in this Section.
   D.   Collection, Payment and Accounting:
      1.   It shall be the joint and several duty of every Terminal Operator of
a Video Gaming Terminal(s) to secure from each Person participating in the play
of a Video Gaming Terminal the tax imposed in this Section.
      2.   For purposes of this Section, it shall be presumed that the amount
of the tax imposed on each Person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector
provides otherwise with books, records or other documentary evidence, has been
collected from the Person by the Terminal Operator.
      3.   Tax payments accompanied by tax returns prescribed by the Village
shall be remitted to the Village on or before the twentieth day of the month
following the month in which payment for the tax is made.
      4.   Every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal who is required
to collect the tax imposed in this Section shall be considered a tax collector
for the Village. All tax amounts collected shall be held by the Terminal
Operator as trustee for and on behalf of the Village. The failure of the
Terminal Operator to collect the tax shall not excuse or release the Person
from the obligation to pay the tax.
      5.   The ultimate incidence of the tax imposed in this Section shall
remain on the Person and shall never be shifted to the Terminal Operator.
      6.   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Village Code, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the Village, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the tax imposed in this Section unless
the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one (1) year after the
date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the Village.
      7.   The Terminal Operator of any Video Gaming Terminal(s) shall be
subject to audit, inspection and record keeping provisions in this Village
Code.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any Terminal Operator and/or Person to
prevent, hinder or interfere with the Village’s officials, employees,
contractors and/or agents designated to discharge their respective duties in
the performance and enforcement of the provisions of this Section. It is the
duty of every Terminal Operator of a Video Gaming Terminal(s) to keep accurate
and complete books and records to which the Village’s officials, employees,
contractors and/or agents shall at all times have full access.
   E.   Rules and Regulations: The Village Manager is authorized to adopt,
promulgate and enforce any additional rules and regulations pertaining to the
interpretation, collection, administration and enforcement of this Section.
   F.   Failure to Pay Tax:
      1.   If a Terminal Operator fails to pay to the Village the tax imposed
by this Section by the date the same shall be due, interest shall accumulate at
a rate of one and a half percent (1.5%) per month until paid.
      2.   Whenever any Terminal Operator falsely reports to the Village
information regarding the tax levied in this Section, or fails to pay the tax
levied in this Section, the Village Attorney shall, upon the request of the
Mayor and Village Board of Trustees, bring or cause to be brought an action to
enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the Village in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
      3.   If the Mayor or their designee, after holding a hearing, shall find
that a Terminal Operator as the agent of the licensed establishment, has failed
to make payment of the tax imposed by this Section or has provided false
information or reports regarding the tax imposed by this Section, the Mayor may
suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such Terminal Operator and the
video gaming license of the licensed establishment. The Terminal Operator may
have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, which shall be held not less
than ten (10) days after notice of the time and place of the hearing, with said
notice, addressed to the Terminal Operator and the establishment at their last
known place of business. Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license which
the Terminal Operator and the licensed establishment may possess may be
temporarily suspended by the Mayor. Any suspension or revocation of any license
as provided for hereunder shall not release or discharge the Terminal Operator
from their civil liability for the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for
such offense.
   G.   Penalties and Enforcement:
      1.   Violation: It shall be a violation of this Section for a Terminal
Operator to fail to file a report or return within the time prescribed in this
Section.
      2.   Report Required: A Terminal Operator who falsely reports, or who
fails to report, the amount of tax due as required by this Section shall be in
violation of this Section.
      3.   False or Inaccurate Information: It shall be a violation of this
Section for any Person to knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information
regarding the tax imposed in this Section to the Village.
      4.   Fine: Any Terminal Operator violating the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750), for each offense. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation and offense.
§ 3-2-14 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS OCCUPATION TAX.
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the Municipal
Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Law (65 ILCS 5/8-11-23), upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, at retail in the
corporate limits of the Village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from
these sales made in the course of that business.
   B.   Collection and Enforcement: The tax imposed by this Chapter, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the Illinois Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
Chapter. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this
Chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted
to the Illinois Department of Revenue shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the State of Illinois. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their
seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect, as provided in
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23.
CHAPTER 3: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
3-3-1   Definitions
   
3-3-2   Liquor Control Commission
   
3-3-3   License Required
   
3-3-4   Application for License; Fee
   
3-3-5   Restrictions on Issuance of License
   
3-3-6   Classification of Licenses
   
3-3-7   Number of Licenses
   
3-3-8   Closing Hours
   
3-3-9   Minors
   
3-3-10   Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
3-3-11   Sellers’ and Servers’ Education Training Program
   
3-3-12   Examinations; Inspections; Revocations; Appeal
   
3-3-13   Off Track Betting Facilities
§ 3-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
Chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   DRAMSHOP ACT: The Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
§ 3-3-2 LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a Village Liquor Control Commission consisting of
two (2) Trustees appointed by the Mayor as Village Liquor Control Commissioner.
It shall be the duty of the Commission to assist the Commissioner in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided for
such Commissioner. Each Commissioner shall remain in office until a replacement
appointment is made or a new Village Liquor Control Commissioner is elected.
Final authority for issuance or revocation of liquor licenses shall remain with
the Village Liquor Control Commissioner.
§ 3-3-3 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic liquor either by
themself or through an agent, employee or partner without first having obtained
a license as is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title for license fees
§ 3-3-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Mayor who is hereby
authorized to be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and charged with the
administration of the Dramshop Act. Such application shall be made in writing
and shall contain the following statements and information:
   A.   The name, age, address and social security number of the applicant in
the case of an individual; in the case of copartnership, the persons entitled
to share in the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or
a club, the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the
names and addresses of the officers and directors and if a majority of the
stock of such corporation, in interest, is owned by one person or their
nominee, the name and address of such person;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, their place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of their naturalization;
   C.   The character of business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of the corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
   G.   A statement as to whether applicant has made similar application and
the disposition of such application;
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this Chapter, laws of the state or ordinances of the Village;
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked and the reason therefor;
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State of Illinois or of the United States in the conduct of their place of
business.
   All initial applications for such licenses shall be accompanied by a five
hundred dollar ($500.00) nonrefundable application fee, which fee shall be
utilized in the normal processing and investigation of the license application,
and shall not be applied towards the regular license fee.
   K.   Applications for a Class A or Class AA liquor license shall be
accompanied by proof of completion of a state certified beverage alcohol
sellers’ and servers’ education and training program (BASSET) or an equivalent
program approved and acceptable to the Chief of Police for all persons who
serve or sell alcoholic beverages pursuant to those licenses.
§ 3-3-5 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   B.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is the keeper
of a house of ill-fame;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other similar crime or
misdemeanor;
   E.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   G.   A copartnership, unless all the members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to receive a license;
   H.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
Village;
   I.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   J.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to
be issued;
   K.   Any law enforcing public official, Mayor, any member of the Board of
Trustees and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
§ 3-3-6 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   Licenses for sale of alcoholic liquor shall be divided into the following
classes:
   CLASS A LICENSE - which shall authorize a restaurant to sell alcoholic
liquor at retail for consumption on the premises specified, as incidental or
complementary service to the sale of food. A “restaurant” is hereby identified
as an establishment whose primary use is the sale of food for consumption on
the premises.
   CLASS B LICENSE - which shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption off-premises, in retail liquor package goods stores, drugstores and
retail food stores, which retail food store must have a minimum of twenty
thousand (20,000') square feet of floor area.
   CLASS D LICENSE - which shall authorize a restaurant to sell beer, wine, ale
and other malt based alcoholic liquors only, at retail for consumption on the
premises specified, as incidental or complementary service to the sale of food.
A “restaurant” is hereby identified as an establishment whose primary use is
the sale of food for consumption on the premises.
   CLASS E LICENSE (CATERERS) - which shall authorize a licensed food caterer
to sell or serve alcoholic liquor for consumption on such premises where food
is served by the caterer.
   CLASS F LICENSE (TEMPORARY MUNICIPAL) - which shall authorize the selling or
serving of alcoholic liquor for consumption on certain designated premises by a
municipal entity within the Village. While the license shall be issued for an
entire licensing year, it shall only be valid on specific days requested by the
licensee, provided that the request for each such day is received by the
Village Clerk ten (10) days prior to each requested date. The request shall set
forth the location to be utilized and the hours which the license shall be in
effect, but shall not require any further action by the Village Board.
   CLASS G LICENSE (SEASONAL MUNICIPAL) - which shall authorize the selling of
beer, ale and other malt based alcoholic liquors by a municipal entity for
consumption on temporary or seasonal premises or on the area surrounding said
premises and which is also owned by the municipal entity; and/or the sale of
said alcoholic liquors on a mobile cart or motorized vehicle traveling on or
about the property owned by the municipal entity. The sale of the permitted
alcoholic liquor shall be in conjunction with the sale of food items and shall
be further subject to the following conditions.
      1.   The seasonal structure used for selling the permitted alcohol shall
be approved by the Department of Community Development.
      2.   The license shall be deemed seasonal and shall be valid only between
April 1 and November 30 of each year.
      3.   The Liquor Commissioner shall have the authority to suspend for up
to thirty (30) days or revoke the Class G license upon any violation of this
Chapter or other conduct by the licensee detrimental to the seasonal
recreational activity related to this license, based upon such evidence as
deemed convincing and sufficient to said Liquor Commissioner in their
discretion.
      4.   The Class G license shall not be required for any municipal entity
which has a Class A liquor license in a facility on the same property for which
a mobile cart or motorized vehicle is utilized.
   CLASS H LICENSE (RETAIL PACKAGING) - which shall authorize the packaging of
orders for alcohol products and delivery of the packaged products to locations
other than the location of the licensed premises
   CLASS AA LICENSE - which shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption only on the premises for such additional time as is set forth in
Section
3-3-8 of this Chapter.
   CLASS AB LICENSE - which shall authorize restaurants which have a Class A
license to sell wine for consumption off the premises.
   CLASS DD LICENSE - which shall authorize the sale of beer, wine, ale and
other malt based alcoholic liquors only for consumption on the premises for an
additional one hour of time over and above the closing hours established
pursuant to Subsection
3-3-8B of this Chapter.
   CLASS MB LICENSE - which shall authorize the operation of a “microbrewery”,
herein defined as an independently owned brewery that produces small amounts of
beer generally characterized by an emphasis on quality, flavor and brewing
technique, and often selling its products only locally. The MB license shall
also authorize the on-site storage of beer or ale as well as authorizing on-
site consumption of such beer or ale by persons of at least twenty-one (21)
years of age. Such microbrewery licenses shall be issued subject to the
following conditions.
      1.   On-premises consumption shall be limited to the retail portion of
the licensed premises, except during supervised tours and private events. The
retail portion shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area of
the unit or building occupied. Additionally, the retail portion shall be
segregated from the remainder of the premises.
      2.   Patrons under the age of twenty-one (21) shall be allowed on the
premises when accompanied by an individual twenty-one (21) years of age or
older; however, classes and seminars shall be limited to patrons twenty-one
(21) years of age or older.
      3.   Patrons purchasing beer for on-premises or off-premises consumption
and occupying the designated tasting room area must present valid
identification attesting that they are twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
      4.   Beer and ale for on-site consumption shall be dispensed only in
containers provided by the licensee.
      5.   No more than a total of sixty (60) ounces of beer or ale shall be
served for the purpose of on-site consumption to any customer in one day.
      6.   The retail sale of beer or ale produced off premises shall be
permitted.
      7.   The sale of beer or ale dispensed into casks, growlers, bottles or
cans for consumption off-premises shall be permitted, provided that the casks,
growlers, bottles or cans are properly sealed for transportation in compliance
with State laws.
      8.   Product sampling shall be permitted in accordance with State law.
      9.   In no event shall the licensee give away beer, ale or other
alcoholic beverages for commercial purposes or in connection with the sale of
such products or to promote the sale of such products.
      10.   The licensee must have at least one BASSET certified site manager
on premises whenever beer is available for on-site consumption. In addition,
all servers must be BASSET certified.
      11.   The licensee must have a valid Class 3 brewer’s license from the
State of Illinois. The licensee may also sell co-branded bourbon/whiskey
bottles for consumption off the licensed premises as such sales are permitted
in the Class 3 state license.
      12.   The retail portion of the microbrewery may conduct business from
three o’clock (3:00) P.M. through ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday; twelve o’clock (12:00) noon through ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on
Thursday and Friday; eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on
Saturday; and from eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. through eleven o’clock (11:00)
P.M. on Sundays and the following holidays:
         New Year’s Eve;
         New Year’s Day;
         St. Patrick’s Day;
         Memorial Day;
         4th of July;
         Labor Day;
         Thanksgiving Eve; and
         Christmas Day.
      Private, pre-arranged events may be conducted on the premises between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. through ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday
through Saturday and eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. through eleven o’clock (11:00)
P.M. on Sundays.
      13.   The licensee shall follow all Village ordinances regarding
procuring applicable license and permits for retail operation and construction
respectively.
   CLASS MT - which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
movie theaters for consumption only on the premises. Alcoholic liquor may be
sold in a movie theater holding a Class MT license only during the period when
patrons of the licensee are offered a limited menu commensurate with a movie
theater. A movie theater is hereby identified as any establishment to which the
public is invited and pays consideration for the purpose of viewing motion
pictures. Such movie theater licenses shall be issued subject to the following
conditions.
      A.   Service of alcoholic beverages shall be limited to a designated
customer bar and/or concession stand.
      B.   The bartender must be twenty-one (21) years of age or older and
BASSETT certified to monitor compliance with alcohol laws and be on duty on the
premises whenever there is service of alcoholic beverages. Proof of age must be
shown with each purchase.
      C.   Alcoholic beverages may be sold in individual containers of sixteen
(16) ounces or less. This limitation shall be absolute and shall apply
irrespective of the actual alcohol content of the beverage.
      D.   No more than two (2) alcoholic beverages may be served to a customer
in any one trip to the bar or concession stand.
      E.   Alcoholic beverages are dispensed in an original container.
      F.   There may be no service of alcoholic beverages unless the movie
theater is actually open for the showing of movies.
      G.   There shall be no service of alcoholic beverages more than one (1)
hour before the showing of a movie or one half (1/2) hour before the end of the
last movie of the day but in no event after eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. No
carry out containers will be allowed.
   CLASS RR LICENSE - which shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption off-premises in stores which have a full service restaurant
combined with the retail sale of food products, which stores must have a
minimum of ten thousand (10,000’) square feet of floor area.
   CLASS AAA LICENSE - which shall authorize hotels which have a Class A
license to install cabinets for the storage of liquor for the use of room
guests in each room; provided, however, that each such cabinet shall be
securely locked with a separate key, which key shall be given only to a guest
twenty-one (21) years or older at the time of registration.
   CLASS WBM LICENSE - which shall authorize the operation of a wine and beer
kit making facility, which will sell wine and beer kits to on-premises
customers and assist them in the wine and beer making process subject to the
following conditions.
      1.   All customers must be twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
      2.   Customers may bring in their own refreshments, including alcoholic
beverages for consumption during the fermentation waiting periods, provided
that the licensee shall be responsible for the responsible consumption of
alcohol by the customers.
      3.   Kits may be sold to groups of customers to create team-building
experiences for firms or entities interested in establishing that experience
for their employees – which may or can include team building training or
coaching with trained professionals.
      4.   The retail sale of wine, beer or other alcohol shall be prohibited.
      5.   The hours of operation shall be from nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to
nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday and ten o’clock (10:00)
A.M. to eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. on Fridays and Saturdays.
      6.   Licensee must have all valid State and Federal licenses applicable
to the processing of beer and wine brewing and labeling.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see also Section
3-1-6  of this Title
§ 3-3-7 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be issued in the Village no more than:
Liquor License Number
Liquor License Number
Class A        39
Class B        15
Class D        12
Class E        5
Class G        1
Class H        3
Class AA       4
Class AB       0
Class DD       0
Class MB       1
Class MT       1
Class RR       1
Class WBM      1
 
   In addition to the foregoing, the Mayor may issue, upon application and
payment of the additional fee provided, a Class AA liquor license to any holder
of a Class A liquor license or a Class DD liquor license to any holder of a
Class D liquor license when the Mayor, in their sole discretion, deems it
advisable and in the best interest of the Village to do so.
§ 3-3-8 CLOSING HOURS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption off the
premises between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00)
A.M. on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and January 1 of each year, and on
Saturdays, Sundays and January 1 of each year between two o’clock (2:00) A.M.
and six o’clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to sell, permit the consumption of or make
available for consumption, alcoholic liquor on the premises where the same is
sold for consumption between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on any day except Saturdays, Sundays and January 1 of each
year, and on Saturdays, Sundays and January 1 of each year between two o’clock
(2:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M.
   C.   The above provisions shall not apply to the holders of Class AA
licenses, in which case it shall be unlawful to sell, permit the consumption of
or make available for consumption, alcoholic liquor on the premises where same
is sold for consumption between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on any day except Saturday, Sunday and January 1 of each
year, and on Saturdays, Sundays and January 1 of each year between three
o’clock (3:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M.
   D.   The term “premises” used herein shall include in its meaning any
portion thereof as well as the whole of any buildings or real property under
the same or similar ownership or control. The foregoing shall not be
interpreted so as to prevent the sale of food or nonalcoholic beverages on said
premises after the hours specified above.
§ 3-3-9 MINORS.
   A.   Sales To; Minors on Premises, as Employees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor, beer
or wine to any minor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license or their agent or employee to suffer or permit any minor to remain in
any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or
place where such licensed premises is located; provided, that this Subsection
shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by their parent or guardian, or
to any licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale of
services or other commodities than alcoholic liquor.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of
age to serve, pour, mix or sell alcoholic liquor in any licensed establishment,
provided, however, that any working waiter, waitress, server or employee of the
licensed establishment who is nineteen (19) and twenty (20) years of age, may
sell or serve alcoholic liquor if they have successfully completed a BASSET
alcohol server program or approved equivalent. It shall be unlawful for the
holder of a liquor license, their agent or employee, to suffer or permit any
such person to serve, pour, mix or sell alcoholic liquor of any kind, except as
provided above.
      4.   In every licensed establishment in the Village where alcoholic
liquor, beer or wine is sold, there shall be displayed in a prominent place a
printed card which shall be supplied by the Village Clerk which shall
substantially read as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS
You are subject to a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or up
to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any subsequent conviction under
Subsection
3-3-9A of the Municipal Code of the Village of Elk Grove Village if you
purchase alcoholic liquor, beer or wine or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor, beer or wine. A minor is
anyone under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
      5.   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may revoke or suspend the retail liquor dealer’s license for any
violation of this Subsection A.
   B.   Purchase or Possession; Liability of Parents and Others:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase, receive, accept, have in their possession or control or
imbibe any alcoholic beverages within the corporate boundaries of the Village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer, permit or allow the
violation of the provisions of this Subsection B in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, house, apartment, room, shed, yard or area of which such person is
the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee or legal possessor or occupier thereof.
      3.   Nothing contained herein shall be applicable to persons under the
age of twenty-one (21) years:
         a.   Participating in a religious ceremony;
         b.   In the presence and with approval of their parent or legal
guardian; or
         c.   Having possession for the purpose of making a delivery of an
alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of their parent or guardian or in
pursuance of their employment.
   C.   Required Acts and Conditions: All holders of a Class B license shall be
required to ask for and examine identification of any individual who attempts
to purchase alcoholic liquor in order to determine whether said individuals can
lawfully purchase alcohol. The form of the identification to be examined shall
be in the discretion of the license holder and may include a driver’s license,
state identification card or membership in an organization which requires its
members to be fifty (50) years of age or older; or such other identification
which unmistakably depicts the holder of same to be over twenty-one (21) years
of age. Alternatively, the licensee may register the identification
information, including a photograph, of its customers and keep such information
on file on the premises. In such case, when the customer attempts to purchase
alcohol, the file must be reviewed by the licensee or its agent for any
customer who elects this alternative method of checking identification. The
mandatory identification examination may be required of holders of other
license classifications, including holders of a Class A license, pursuant to
and for such duration, not to exceed one year, as ordered by the Liquor
Commissioner pursuant to Subsection
3-3-12C of this Chapter.
   D.   Signage: All Class B licensed establishments and all other
establishments which are subject to mandatory identification examination shall
display a sign on the licensed premises advising the customers of the mandatory
identification examination requirement, which sign shall be provided by the
Village and in such form as approved by the Village.
§ 3-3-10 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Gambling: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on any premises
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, provided that this Section shall not apply
to the following:
      1.   Off track betting facilities as established pursuant to Section
3-3-13 of this Chapter;
      2.   Video gaming establishments as set forth in Section
3-17-1 et seq. of this Title.
   B.   Improper Exhibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform,
or for any licensee or manager or agent of the licensee to permit any employee,
entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance or
exhibition on the licensed premises which:
      1.   Exposes their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
      3.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
§ 3-3-11 SELLERS’ AND SERVERS’ EDUCATION TRAINING PROGRAM.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to permit any person in a Class A, Class AA, Class
D, Class MB or Class MT licensed establishment or any employee of a class E
license to serve or sell alcoholic beverages unless that person has completed a
BASSET program or approved equivalent as required, or employ a manager unless
that person has completed the BASSET program or approved equivalent.
   B.   Any new employee of a Class A, Class AA, Class D, Class MB or Class MT
licensed establishment who serves or sells alcoholic beverages shall have
ninety (90) days from the beginning of their employment to complete the BASSET
program or approved equivalent and shall until completion of said program work
under the supervision of a person who has completed a training program.
   C.   A photocopy of the certificate of completion of a training program must
be filed with the Village Clerk, posted in clear view on the premises and
maintained on the premises of the licensee and produced upon demand.
   D.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day a violation occurs or
continues to exist. In addition to any penalties provided for herein, any
person who violates this Section shall be subject to having its Class A or
Class AA liquor license suspended or revoked as provided in Section
3-3-12 of this Chapter.
   The provisions of this Section shall also apply to all Class F temporary
municipal licenses issued.
§ 3-3-12 EXAMINATIONS; INSPECTIONS; REVOCATIONS; APPEAL.
   A.   Examinations: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the
right to examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof and to examine or cause to be examined
the books and records of any such applicant.
   B.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner hereby
is given the power to enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter
at any time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of
the provisions of the Dramshop Act, or any rules or regulations adopted by
them, or by the State Commission, have been or are being violated and at such
time to examine the premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
   C.   Violation, Fine; Suspension or Revocation of License: The Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the right to hold a hearing for any licensee
upon whom a notice of violation has been served and to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any such licensee, to hear testimony and take
proof for their information in the performance of their duties and for such
purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this state,
all as provided and in the manner provided by law.
      If, after a hearing on an alleged violation, the Mayor, as Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, finds that there was any violation of the ordinances of
the Village or statutes of the State of Illinois, they may suspend or revoke
any retail liquor dealer’s license and/or fine any such licensee for any
violation of any provision of this Chapter or for the violation of any state
law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
      If the Commissioner determines to suspend such license, the term of the
suspension shall not be less than one day nor more than thirty (30) days.
      If the Commissioner elects to fine such licensee, the amount of such fine
shall not be less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), except for offenses
involving mandatory identification examination, in which case the minimum fine
shall not be less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense. The Commissioner is further
authorized to assess the licensee for all costs associated with the hearing
including attorney fees and court reporter fees.
      In addition to the payment of fines and costs as herein provided, the
Commissioner may impose such other sanctions which are deemed appropriate and
just in order to abate the sale of alcohol to minors or other violations of
this Chapter. Such sanctions may include mandatory identification examination
of all customers purchasing or consuming alcohol on the licensed premises.
   D.   Proceedings Officially Recorded: All proceedings before the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall be recorded and placed in a certified
official record of such proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court
reporter.
   E.   Appeal: Any appeal of proceedings for imposition of a fine, revocation
or suspension of licenses shall be limited to a review of the official record,
in accordance with the provisions of the Dramshop Act.
§ 3-3-13 OFF TRACK BETTING FACILITIES.
   A.   Local Gaming Commissioner: The Mayor shall serve as the Local Gaming
Commissioner. There is also established a Local Gaming Commission which shall
consist of the same two (2) members appointed by the Mayor to the Liquor
Control Commission who shall advise the Commissioner in the same manner as with
the Liquor Control Commission. Any hearings before the Local Gaming Commission
shall be called and conducted in the same manner as hearings before the Village
Liquor Commission.
   B.   Rules and Regulations: Whenever an off track betting facility is
approved at an establishment licensed to sell alcohol in the Village, the
establishment and the off track betting facility must adhere to all rules and
regulations established by the Village in addition to adhering to all the rules
and regulations set forth for establishments licensed to sell alcohol. Any
approved off track betting facility shall be subject to the following rules and
regulations.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to permit any person under the age of twenty-
one (21) to participate in any gambling activity.
      2.   The off track betting facility shall be responsible for enforcing
all age restrictions and regulations on the premises including automatic teller
machines, which automatic teller machines must be in clear view of designated
employees of the establishment.
   C.   Inspections; Violations; Sanctions:
      1.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The Local Gaming Commissioner is given
the power to enter or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon any premises approved to conduct an off track betting facility in the
Village to determine whether any of the rules or regulations adopted by the
Village have been or are being violated and to examine the premises of said
establishment in connection therewith.
      2.   Violation, Fine; Suspension or Revocation of License:
         a.   The Local Gaming Commissioner shall have the right to hold a
hearing for any establishment upon whom a notice of violation has been served,
to hear testimony and take proof for their information in the performance of
their duties.
         b.   If, after a hearing on an alleged violation, the Local Gaming
Commissioner finds that there was any violation of the ordinances of the
Village or statutes of the State of Illinois, they may suspend or revoke any
off track betting facility and/or the liquor license establishment of said
facility, whatever the case may be, and/or fine any such establishment or
licensee for any violation of any provision of this Chapter.
         c.   If the Commissioner elects to fine the establishment or the
licensee, the amount of such fine shall not be less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
for each offense. The Commissioner is further authorized to assess the
establishment or the licensee for all costs associated with the hearing
including attorney fees and court reporter fees.
         d.   In addition to the payment of fines and costs as herein provided,
the Local Gaming Commissioner may impose such other sanctions deemed
appropriate to abate violations of this Section, including mandatory
identification examination of all customers utilizing the off track betting
facility.
      3.   Proceedings Officially Recorded: All proceedings before the Local
Gaming Commissioner shall be recorded and placed in a certified official record
of such proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter.
CHAPTER 4: AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION
Section
Article A. Indoor and Outdoor Places of Amusement, Entertainment and Recreation
   
3-4A-1   License Required
   
3-4A-2   Application for License
   
3-4A-3   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-4A-4   Inspections
Article B. Athletic Exhibitions
   
3-4B-1   Definition
   
3-4B-2   License Required
   
3-4B-3   Application for License
   
3-4B-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-4B-5   Inspections
**** ARTICLE A. INDOOR AND OUTDOOR PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT AND
RECREATION ****
§ 3-4A-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate, carry on or manage
a business engaged in indoor or outdoor entertainment, amusement or recreation,
either by theirself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first
having obtained a license as is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title for license fees
§ 3-4A-2 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses (see Section
3-1-3 of this Title). Such application may be required to provide additional
information as requested by Village Departments as it relates to proposed
business operations.
§ 3-4A-3 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Bond and Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Bond: All applications for parades shall specify the route to be
followed and shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss, damage or
liability incurred or caused by the conduct of such parade.
      2.   Insurance: All applications for circuses or parades shall specify
the location of the activity and shall be accompanied by a certificate of
insurance (on forms provided by the Village) in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars/three hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00/$300,000.00)
general liability and twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) property
damage, naming Elk Grove Village as an additional insured party.
   B.   Food Service: Regulations of Elk Grove Village governing the dispensing
of foods and drinks at all temporary food service establishments shall be
adhered to in connection with licenses granted under this Article. (See Chapter
5 of this Title.)
   C.   Use of Tents: When any of the activities include the use of tents to
which the public is admitted, tents that are used for cooking or include
electrical equipment and all tents greater than twelve feet by twelve feet (12'
x 12') in size will be made of a flame-resistant material, and a certificate of
flame resistance shall accompany the license application.
   D.   Restoration of Site: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to
assure that areas used for any of the above activities shall be cleaned and
returned to their normal condition at the conclusion of that activity.
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see also Section
1-8-4 of this Code
§ 3-4A-4 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development,
Chief of Police and Fire Chief to make or cause to be made such inspections as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article and
all other ordinances relating hereto.
**** ARTICLE B. ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS ****
§ 3-4B-1 DEFINITION.
   “Athletic exhibition” shall mean any race, baseball, football, basketball,
softball, boxing, wrestling or other athletic contest for which the public is
admitted to participate or view.
§ 3-4B-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an athletic exhibition,
either by themself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first
having obtained a license as is herein provided. However, this requirement
shall not apply to those athletic exhibitions conducted by schools and
governmental elementary and high schools located within Elk Grove Village.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-4B-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. Such application shall also specify the seating capacity of the
premises where such athletic exhibition is to be performed or presented.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-1-3 of this Title
§ 3-4B-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Closing Hours: No athletic exhibition shall be conducted between the
hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   B.   Presence of Police and Fire Departments: The proprietor of such an
athletic exhibition shall, when determined necessary by the Village, allow
sufficient on-duty members of the Police Department and Fire Department to be
admitted free to all such exhibitions for the purpose of providing for the
life, safety and welfare of the public.
   C.   Order: The audience of any athletic exhibition must be orderly at all
times.
   D.   Ambulance Service: Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant
must provide evidence of an agreement, contract or other type of arrangement
with a private ambulance service to provide for the emergency transfer of
occupants, for unpredictable reasons, that may require hospital admission and
care.
§ 3-4B-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police and Fire Chief to make
or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this Article and all other ordinances relating hereto.
CHAPTER 5: FOOD RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
Article A. Food Code
   
3-5A-1   Codes Adopted, Amendments
   
3-5A-2   Definitions
   
3-5A-3   Permit Requirements
   
3-5A-4   Sale of Food Products from Outside the Village
   
3-5A-5   Infection Suspects
   
3-5A-6   Examinations and Inspections
Article B. Establishments and Businesses Related to Food Service, Delivery
Processing and Storage
   
3-5B-1   License Required
   
3-5B-2   Application for License
   
3-5B-3   Inspections
Article C. Restaurants
   
3-5C-1   Definitions
   
3-5C-2   License Required
   
3-5C-3   Application for License
   
3-5C-4   Floor Area Computation
   
3-5C-5   Improper Conduct Prohibited
Article D. Food Vending Vehicles
   
3-5D-1   Definition
   
3-5D-2   License Required
   
3-5D-3   Application for License
   
3-5D-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-5D-5   Inspections
   
3-5D-6   Driver Violations; Suspension, Revocation
   
3-5D-7   Food Vending Vehicle Operator’s Permit
Article E. Food/Beverage Vending Machines
   
3-5E-1   Definitions
   
3-5E-2   License Required
   
3-5E-3   Application for License
   
3-5E-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-5E-5   Inspections
Article F. Shared Kitchens
   
3-5F-1   Definitions
   
3-5F-2   License Required
   
3-5F-3   Application for License
   
3-5F-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-5F-5   Inspections
**** ARTICLE A. FOOD CODE ****
§ 3-5A-1 CODES ADOPTED, AMENDMENTS.
   A.   Illinois Food Code: The Illinois Food Code, being Illinois
Administrative Code Title 77, Part 750, which is available for viewing at the
Department of Community Development, and any amendments or changes thereto, are
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference into this Code, subject to the
additions, amendments and deletions set forth as follows:
   The words Regulatory Authority in the Illinois Food Code shall be understood
to refer to the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   Section 3-302.15 of the Illinois Food Code is hereby amended by adding
thereto a paragraph, which shall read as follows:
      1.   Food establishments, which prepare foods on the premises, shall
install an additional approved food preparation sink in the kitchen area. This
sink must be provided with at least one (1) integral drain board.
§ 3-5A-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following term shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY: The Village of Elk Grove Village Department of
Community Development or an authorized representative thereof.
§ 3-5A-3 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Permit and Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a food establishment within the Village without a valid permit from the
Regulatory Authority and a business license from the Finance Department. Only a
person who complies with the requirements of this Article shall be entitled to
receive and retain such a permit. A valid permit is one that is not suspended,
revoked or expired.
   B.   Application for Permit; Inspections; Issuance: Any person desiring to
operate a food establishment shall make written application for a permit on
forms provided by the Regulatory Authority. Such application shall include: the
applicant’s full name and Post Office address and whether such applicant is an
individual, firm or corporation, and, if a partnership, the name of the
partners, together with their addresses shall be included; the location and
type of the proposed food establishment; and the signature of the applicant or
applicants. If the application is for a temporary food establishment, it shall
also include the inclusive dates of the proposed operation.
   Upon receipt of such an application, the Regulatory Authority shall make an
inspection of the food establishment to determine compliance with the
provisions of this Article. When inspection reveals that the applicable
requirements of this Article have been met, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant by the Regulatory Authority.
   C.   Conditional Permit: When structural, plumbing, electrical, ventilation,
equipment or similar such defects exist in an established food facility that
may require a significant expenditure to correct, but are not considered an
imminent health hazard, a conditional permit may be granted at the discretion
of the Regulatory Authority. The conditional permit will be issued for such
lengths of time as is deemed appropriate by the Community Development
Department. In no event shall any individual permit or any renewal thereof be
issued for a combined period longer than twenty-four (24) months. With respect
to food establishments with a new owner or operator, if no imminent health
hazards are present at the time of inspection, and all other departments have
approved the food establishment for continued operation, the Community
Development Department may issue a conditional permit for a length of time not
to exceed ninety (90) days. At the expiration of a conditional permit time
period, all items identified in the original inspection must be corrected and/
or approved, otherwise, the premises will be subject to immediate closure.
   D.   Temporary Suspension of Permits; Reinstatement:
      1.   Permits may be suspended temporarily by the Regulatory Authority for
failure of the holder to comply with the requirements of this Article.
      Whenever a permit holder or operator has failed to comply with any notice
issued under the provisions of this Article, the permit holder or operator
shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the notice,
immediately suspended and that a request for a hearing may be filed with the
Regulatory Authority by the permit holder. The suspension order shall be stayed
pending any such hearing.
      Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Article, whenever the
Regulatory Authority finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of a
food establishment which, in their judgment, constitute a substantial hazard to
the public health, they may, without warning, notice or hearing, issue a
written notice to the permit holder or operator citing such condition,
specifying the corrective action to be taken and specifying the time period
within which such action shall be taken and, if deemed necessary, such order
shall state that the permit is immediately suspended and all food service
operations are to be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom such an order
is issued shall comply immediately therewith but, upon written petition to the
Regulatory Authority, shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
      2.   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application for a reinspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the permit.
Within two (2) days following receipt of a written request, including a
statement signed by the applicant that, in their opinion, the conditions
causing suspension of the permit have been corrected, the Regulatory Authority
shall make a reinspection. If the applicant is complying with the requirements
of this Article, the permit shall be reinstated.
   E.   Revocation of Permits: For serious or repeated violations of any of the
requirements of this Article or for interference with the Regulatory Authority
in the performance of their duties, the permit may be permanently revoked after
an opportunity for a hearing has been provided by the Regulatory Authority.
Prior to such action, the Regulatory Authority shall notify the permit holder,
in writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation
and advising that the permit shall be permanently revoked at the end of five
(5) days following service of such notice unless a request for a hearing is
filed with the Regulatory Authority by the permit holder within such five (5)
day period. A permit may be suspended for cause pending its revocation or a
hearing relative thereto.
   F.   Hearings: The hearings provided for in this Section shall be conducted
by the License Review Commission at a time and place designated by said
Commission. Based upon the record of such hearing, the Commission shall make a
finding to sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or order considered
in the hearing. All hearings for license revocation or permanent closure of a
food establishment shall likewise be before the License Review Commission.
Based upon the record of such hearing, the Commission shall make a finding as
to whether to permanently revoke such establishment’s license. A written report
of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the license holder by the
Regulatory Authority within five (5) days from the date said matter is decided
by the License Review Commission.
§ 3-5A-4 SALE OF FOOD PRODUCTS FROM OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE.
   Food from food establishments outside the jurisdiction of the Village may be
sold within the Village if such food establishments conform to the provisions
of this Article or to substantially equivalent provisions. To determine the
extent of compliance with such provisions, the Regulatory Authority may accept
reports from the responsible authority in other jurisdictions where such food
establishments are located.
§ 3-5A-5 INFECTION SUSPECTS.
   When the Regulatory Authority has reasonable cause to suspect the
possibility of disease transmission from any food establishment or employee,
they shall make such investigation as may be indicated, including the morbidity
history of suspected employees, and take appropriate action. The Regulatory
Authority may require any or all of the following measures:
   A.   The immediate closure of the food establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Regulatory Authority, no further danger of disease outbreak
exists. Upon such closure, the establishment may open only upon written notice
from the Regulatory Authority;
   B.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from food establishments;
   C.   Restriction of the employee’s services to some area of the food
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease;
   D.   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee and, if
deemed necessary, other
employees.
§ 3-5A-6 EXAMINATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Examination of Food Samples: Samples of food and other substances may
be determined or sampled by the Regulatory Authority as often as may be
necessary to determine freedom from adulteration and misbranding and determine
bacteriological contact. The Regulatory Authority may request the condemnation
of or request the removal, destruction or denaturing of any food which is
unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded. The Regulatory Authority may, upon
written notice to the owner or person in charge, place a tag or hold order on
any food which they determine, or have probable cause to believe to be,
unwholesome. Under a hold order, food shall be permitted to be suitably stored.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or alter a hold order, notice or
tag placed on food by the Regulatory Authority, and neither such food or the
containers thereof shall be relabeled, repacked, reprocessed, altered, disposed
of or destroyed without permission of the Regulatory Authority, except on order
by a court of competent jurisdiction. The Regulatory Authority may vacate the
hold order or may, by written order, direct the owner or person in charge of
the food which was placed under the hold order to denature or destroy such food
or to bring it into compliance with provisions of this Article; provided, that
such order shall be stayed if the order is appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction within three (3) days.
   B.   Inspection Frequency: An inspection of a food establishment shall be
performed at least at the frequency designated by the Illinois Food Code.
Additional inspections shall be performed as often as are deemed necessary for
the enforcement of this Article.
   C.   Entry Powers: Representatives of the Regulatory Authority, after proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter any food establishment, at any
reasonable time, for the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance
with this Article. The representatives shall be permitted to examine the
records of the food establishment and operator to obtain information pertaining
to food and supplies purchased, received or used, and persons employed.
   D.   Report of Inspections: Whenever an inspection of a food establishment
is made, the findings shall be recorded on an inspection report form. The
inspection report form shall summarize the requirements of this Article.
Inspectional remarks shall be written to reference, by section number, the
section violated and shall state the correction to be made. A copy of the
completed inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in charge of
the food establishment at the conclusion of the inspection. The completed
inspection report form is a public document that shall be made available for
public disclosure to any person who requests it according to law.
   E.   Correction of Violations:
      1.   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable
period of time for the correction of the violation found, and correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified, in accordance
with the following provisions.
         a.   If an imminent health hazard exists, such as a fire, flood,
extended interruption of electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of
poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne illness outbreak,
gross insanitary occurrence, severe pest infestation, inadequate refrigeration,
or condition or other circumstance that may endanger public health, the food
establishment shall immediately cease operations. Operations shall not be
resumed until authorized by the Regulatory Authority.
         b.   In the case of temporary food establishments, all violations
shall be corrected or the food establishment shall immediately cease operations
until authorized to resume by the Regulatory Authority.
      2.   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any
time limits for corrections may result in cessation of operations. An
opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations or
both will be provided if a written request is filed with the Regulatory
Authority within ten (10) days following cessation of operations. If a request
for hearing is received, a hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days of
receipt of the request.
      3.   Whenever a food establishment is required to cease operations, it
shall not resume operations until it is shown on reinspection that conditions
responsible for the order to cease operations no longer exist. Opportunity for
reinspection shall be offered within a reasonable time.
**** ARTICLE B. ESTABLISHMENTS AND BUSINESSES RELATED TO FOOD SERVICE, DELIVERY
PROCESSING AND STORAGE ****
§ 3-5B-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a food dealer, food
processor, food storage, food caterer or any other food related business,
either by themself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first
having obtained a license as is herein provided.
§ 3-5B-2 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses.
§ 3-5B-3 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development to
make or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Article and all other ordinances related
hereto.
**** ARTICLE C. RESTAURANTS ****
§ 3-5C-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this Article shall be
construed as herein defined:
   ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of a building located on the same lot with the principal use of the
building.
   BASEMENT: The portion of a building located underground, but having less
than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR: The portion of a building partly or wholly underground, but having
one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height
below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   FLOOR AREA: The sum total of the gross horizontal areas of all the several
floors of a building and its accessory buildings measured in square feet from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of party walls
separating two (2) buildings or establishments on each of the respective floors
and shall include the basement floor, cellar floor and floor space used for
mechanical equipment whether open or enclosed, including such equipment as may
be located in a penthouse, attic space, balconies, mezzanines, porches,
verandas, stage areas and floor area devoted to and occupied by accessory uses,
when used to prepare, store and serve food and drink, and are approved for such
service use.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in any
establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
   RESTAURANT: An establishment, or part therefor, in which food and/or drink
is prepared, served and consumed on premises or provided as part of a carryout
service for the consumption of food and/or drink off the premises.
§ 3-5C-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, maintain,
operate, carry on or manage a restaurant, either by themself or through an
agent, employee or partner, without first having obtained a license as is
herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-5C-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.)
§ 3-5C-4 FLOOR AREA COMPUTATION.
   Total floor area applicable for the determination of the yearly license fee
shall include the sum total of all the floor area in use or served for or
retained for the use of the food service establishment including, but not
restricted to, principal and accessory floor area, cellars, basements, storage
or detached accessory buildings, even though any such floor area may be
temporarily vacant or not in use.
   All measured area expressed in square feet shall be to the nearest integral
square foot; if a fraction is one-half (1/2) square foot or more, the integral
square foot next above shall be taken.
   Any owner applying for one of the licenses included in the provisions of
this Article shall be responsible for setting forth the computed square footage
of its establishment on its license application.
§ 3-5C-5 IMPROPER CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform, or for any licensee or
manager or agent of the licensee to permit any employee, entertainer or patron
to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance or exhibition on the licensed
premises which:
   A.   Exposes their genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region; or
   B.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
   C.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
**** ARTICLE D. FOOD VENDING VEHICLES ****
§ 3-5D-1 DEFINITION.
   “Food vending vehicle” shall mean any vehicle including, but not limited to,
wagons, motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by manpower used for the
transportation of prepared foodstuffs, beverages (not to include intoxicating
liquor) or milk or milk products within the Village for the purpose of retail
selling directly to the public.
§ 3-5D-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or maintain a company which
operates a food vending vehicle or vehicles, either by themself or through an
agent, employee or partner, without first having obtained a business license as
is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-5D-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Section shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) Such application shall also specify the number of
vehicles to be used by the applicant.
§ 3-5D-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   All foods not prepared on the vehicle must be individually packaged and
shall be labeled to identify contents and the name and address of the supplier,
provided that receipts for packaged, unlabeled, bakery items are acceptable.
All foods prepared on the vehicle must meet the requirements of the Illinois
Food Code.
   B.   All vehicles shall have the name of the licensed firm written or
printed on the vehicle so that it is clearly visible from a distance of fifty
feet (50').
   C.   All such vehicles shall have a mechanical refrigeration system subject
to the approval of the Department of Community Development.
   D.   Food vending vehicles shall be subject to all applicable provisions of
the codes and regulations referenced in Article A of this Chapter.
   E.   All vehicles shall have a current Village of Elk Grove permit sticker
on the front and rear bumpers.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any
street, sidewalk or public right-of-way for the purpose of selling food or
beverages thereon in any zoning district other than residential (B-1, B-2 or B-
3 Business Districts; I-1 or I-2 Industrial Districts; O-T Office/Transition
District; or ITC Innovation and Technology Center District).
§ 3-5D-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development to
make or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Section and all other ordinances
relating hereto.
§ 3-5D-6 DRIVER VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   In addition to the other requirements and restrictions set forth herein, all
drivers of food vending vehicles shall be deemed agents of the licensed
company. Should any driver/employee commit a violation or violations applicable
to this Code on three (3) or more separate occasions in any twelve (12) month
period, the Village shall have the right to suspend or revoke the license of
the company. In such case, a hearing shall be held before a designated official
of the Department of Community Development and the Village Attorney. Written
notice of the hearing shall be sent to the company no sooner than five (5) days
before the date the hearing is scheduled. At the hearing, the company and the
driver can provide an explanation or reason for the repeated violations.
Depending on the nature of the violation, the frequency of their occurrence, as
well as the explanation, if any, offered for the cause of the violations, the
Village can suspend or revoke the license or enter a fine of up to seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) against the company. In addition, the Village
can suspend or revoke the permit of the driver to continue driving a food
vending vehicle in the Village. An appeal of any decision may be taken to the
Village Manager provided a request for such appeal is made in writing within
ten (10) days from the date the initial decision is rendered.
§ 3-5D-7 FOOD VENDING VEHICLE OPERATOR’S PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food vending vehicle within
the Village without first having obtained an operator’s permit therefor. An
application for an operator’s permit shall be made to the Department of
Community Development and shall contain such information as the Department of
Community Development shall request. The permit shall be attached to the
vehicle which the driver is operating. The fee for such permit shall be twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) per year. The operator’s permit may be suspended or
revoked for cause as set forth and in the same manner as set forth in Section
3-5D-6 of this Article.
**** ARTICLE E. FOOD/BEVERAGE VENDING MACHINES ****
§ 3-5E-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
   FOOD/BEVERAGE VENDING MACHINE: A container or device used for the sale of
any prepackaged beverage or article of food, the operation of which is governed
or controlled by the deposit of U.S. currency or token.
§ 3-5E-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a food/beverage
vending machine, either by themself or through an agent, employee or partner
without first having obtained a license as is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-5E-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to all applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) Such application shall also specify the number and type
of vending machines intended to be operated, a description of each type and the
number of employees to be involved in servicing the machines.
§ 3-5E-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Code Adopted: The Village does hereby adopt by reference the Illinois
Food Code, Title 77, Part 750, as recommended by the United States department
of health, education and welfare as its ordinance and code governing the
regulation of automatic food/beverage vending machines except insofar as
specific provisions of this Article contradict same. The Community Development
Department shall retain copies of this said Code at the Village Hall as
provided by law.
   B.   Location: No automatic food/beverage vending machine shall be located
in any premises that expose the food to danger from improper handling, dust,
dirt, flies, vermin or other contamination.
   C.   Operator’s Name and Address: There shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on each machine the name, address and telephone number of the person
responsible for the maintenance of such machine.
§ 3-5E-5 INSPECTIONS.
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of the Community Development and Police
Departments to make or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article and all other ordinances
relating thereto.
   B.   Any vending machine, the owner or owners of which have a total of ten
(10) or more unpaid citations, issued within a thirty (30) day period, charging
that such machine owned by the same owner or owners is operating in violation
of any ordinance of the Village shall be deemed a public nuisance, and the
Police Department or any other agent of the Village is hereby authorized to
remove, or cause to be removed, and impound the offending machine at the sole
cost and expense of the owner or owners thereof.
   C.   Any machine impounded pursuant to this Section will be released to its
lawful owner or owners upon the showing of adequate evidence of the right of
possession and upon the payment of all licenses required, accrued fines and
costs for each outstanding unpaid citation or judgment against the person or
persons owning the machine. In lieu of payment of the amount due on the unpaid
citations, the owner may wish to appear in court to contest the violation, and
may do so by completing a request for a court appearance in the Circuit Court
of Cook County to answer said violations. The release must be signed by the
Director of Finance or their designee.
**** ARTICLE F. SHARED KITCHENS ****
§ 3-5F-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
   SHARED KITCHEN: Any licensed food establishment that leases, rents or
otherwise makes their commercial kitchen space available for use by individuals
or business entities for food preparation, food storage, product development,
food packaging or any other food-related purposes as regulated by the Illinois
Food Code.
   SHARED KITCHEN USER: Any individual or business entity who leases, rents or
uses a licensed shared kitchen establishment for food-related purposes and
holds a valid business license with the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   SHARED KITCHEN OWNER: The individual or business entity renting or leasing a
licensed and permitted kitchen to shared kitchen users.
§ 3-5F-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a shared kitchen
or be a shared kitchen user, either by themselves or through an agent, employee
or partner without first having obtained a license as is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-5F-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to all applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.)
§ 3-5F-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   A shared kitchen can only operate within a licensed and permitted food
establishment.
   B.   Processes requiring an Illinois Food Code variance are not permitted
within a shared kitchen.
   C.   It is the responsibility of the shared kitchen owner to collect, review
and submit necessary documentation from shared kitchen users to the Regulatory
Authority.
   D.   It is the responsibility of shared kitchen owner to submit an updated
shared kitchen user list identifying new and inactive users from the prior
month to the Regulatory Authority no later than the first Wednesday of each
subsequent month.
   E.   It is the responsibility of the shared kitchen owner to submit a list
setting forth the date(s) and time(s) each shared kitchen user used the shared
kitchen during the prior month to the Regulatory Authority no later than the
first Wednesday of each subsequent month.
   F.   The Regulatory Authority, in their sole discretion, shall ensure that,
at any given time, the number of shared kitchen users does not pose a health or
safety risk.
§ 3-5F-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development to
make or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Section and all other ordinances
relating hereto.
CHAPTER 6: RETAIL BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS
Section
Article A. General Retail Businesses
   
3-6A-1   Definition
   
3-6A-2   License Required
   
3-6A-3   Application for License
   
3-6A-4   Inspections
Article B. Cigarette and Tobacco Dealers, Alternative Nicotine Products
   
3-6B-1   Definitions
   
3-6B-2   License Required; Fee
   
3-6B-3   Application for License
   
3-6B-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-6B-5   Inspections
   
3-6B-6   Administration of Provisions; Suspension or Revocation of License
   
3-6B-7   Penalties
Article C. Temporary General Retail Businesses
   
3-6C-1   Definition
   
3-6C-2   License Required
   
3-6C-3   Application for License
   
3-6C-4   Term of License
   
3-6C-5   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-6C-6   Inspections
**** ARTICLE A. GENERAL RETAIL BUSINESSES ****
§ 3-6A-1 DEFINITION.
   The term “general retail business” as herein used is hereby defined to be
those professions, occupations, businesses and/or commercial establishments
engaged in general retail business within the Village and not specifically
designated and licensed elsewhere in this Title.
§ 3-6A-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a general retail business as
herein defined without first having obtained a license therefor.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-6A-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a general business license shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Title relating to applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.)
§ 3-6A-4 INSPECTIONS.
   The Police Chief, Fire Chief or Director of Community Development or such
persons designated by them shall periodically inspect the premises of each
general business licensee to see that all provisions of this Article and all
building, fire and health regulations of this Code are adhered to and complied
with. (See Titles 4 and 5 and Title 8, Chapter 3 of this Code.)
**** ARTICLE B. CIGARETTE AND TOBACCO DEALERS, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS
****
§ 3-6B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing or by any other means. This does not include tobacco products as that
term is defined in this Section or any product approved by the United States
Food and Drug Administration as a nontobacco product for sale as a tobacco
cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product or for other medicinal
purposes.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical container or device used or
intended to be used for retail sales of cigarettes, the operation of which is
governed or controlled by the deposit of a coin or token.
   KRATOM: Any parts of the plant mitragyna speciosa, whether growing or not,
and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of that
plant, including but not limited to mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine.
   MINORS: Any person twenty (20) years of age or under.
   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL (THC) PRODUCTS: A product which contains THC derived
from the cannabis sativa plant such as delta 8 vapes, gummy bears and similar
products containing THC.
   TOBACCO DEALER: Any person selling, offering for sale, exposing for sale or
keeping, with the intention of selling or exchanging at retail, cigarettes,
cigars or tobacco in any form. Tobacco dealer shall also include the sale of
alternative nicotine products as defined herein.
§ 3-6B-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate as a
tobacco dealer, either by himself or through an agent, employee or partner
without first having obtained a license as herein provided. The annual fee for
a cigarette and tobacco dealer shall be $1,000.00.
§ 3-6B-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to application for
licenses. Such application shall specify the location of the establishment at
which tobacco products are to be sold over the counter. (See Section
3-1-6 of this Title for license fees.)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-1-3 of this Title
§ 3-6B-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Minors:
      1.   Sales to Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give
away, or offer to sell or give away, any cigarettes, cigars, tobacco or
alternative nicotine products in any form to any person under twenty-one (21)
years of age.
      2.   Purchase by Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to purchase tobacco products or alternative
nicotine products or misrepresent his/her identity or age or to use any false
or alternate identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products or
alternative nicotine products.
      3.   Possession by Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to possess any tobacco products or alternative
products.
      4.   Signs Posted: Signs informing the public of the age restrictions
provided for herein shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display
of tobacco products or alternative nicotine products. Each such sign shall be
plainly visible and shall state:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER
TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      5.   Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person seventeen (17) years of
age or younger to sell tobacco products or alternative nicotine products.
   B.   Electronic or Vending Machine Sale or Distribution Prohibited: The sale
of tobacco products, cannabis products, nicotine products and/or Electronic
Smoking Devices including all accessories and input products by vending machine
or similar electronic distribution method is prohibited.
   C.   Certain Free Distribution Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or any person in the business of selling or otherwise distributing,
promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any employee or agent of any such
licensee or person, in the course of such licensee’s or person’s business, to
distribute, give away or deliver tobacco products free of charge to any person
on any right-of-way, park, playground or other property owned by the Village,
any school district, any park district or any public library.
   D.   Sale of Products Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or
any employee or agent of any such licensee to sell, deliver or distribute any
illicit THC product or Kratom.
§ 3-6B-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police or their designated
agent to make or cause to be made such inspections to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this Article, all applicable laws of the State and all other
ordinances relating hereto.
§ 3-6B-6 ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Mayor shall be charged with the administration of this Article. In case
of a first violation of the provisions of this Article, the licensee shall be
advised by the Mayor or their designated agent of the violation and further
advised that any subsequent violations within a one (1) year period will result
in a hearing before the Mayor. At said hearing, upon a finding of guilty or
admission of guilt, the Mayor may levy a fine in the amount set forth in
Section
3-6B-7 of this Article and in addition, may suspend or revoke the license
depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. Notice of the
hearing shall be provided at least five (5) days before the date scheduled for
the hearing. The decision of the Mayor shall be deemed final.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this Article, by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such licensee; and such licensee shall be subject to such penalties as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
   Notwithstanding the above, any licensee who violates or who is alleged to
have violated Section
3-6B-4 of this Article shall be subject to a hearing before the Mayor in the
manner provided in this Section
3-6B-6 where upon a finding of guilty or admission of guilt, the Mayor may levy
a fine in the amount set forth in Section
3-6B-7 of this Article and may furthermore suspend or revoke the license.
§ 3-6B-7 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues
to exist.
   In addition to any penalties imposed herein, any licensee who violates any
of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to a suspension or
revocation of the license issued to said licensee.
**** ARTICLE C. TEMPORARY GENERAL RETAIL BUSINESSES ****
§ 3-6C-1 DEFINITION.
   The term “temporary general retail business” as herein used is hereby
defined to be those professions, occupations, businesses and/or commercial
establishments not engaged in general retail businesses within the Village but
periodically will be permitted to engage in short-term general retail activity.
§ 3-6C-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a “temporary general retail
business” as herein defined without first having obtained a license therefor.
§ 3-6C-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All businesses, occupations, trades and activities desiring a temporary
general retail business license required in or by this Code shall obtain
authorization for zoning from the Department of Community Development. Once
authorization is received, an application for a temporary general retail
business license shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of
this Title relating to applications for licenses. Zoning approval and an
application is required for each temporary sale.
§ 3-6C-4 TERM OF LICENSE.
   A temporary general retail business license shall be granted for a period
not to exceed three (3) consecutive days, unless authorized by the Village
Board. The license shall commence and expire as approved by the Department of
Community Development. The Village is not required to notify licensee of
license expiration.
§ 3-6C-5 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Restrictions and requirements shall be the same as those required for
Article A, “General Retail Businesses”, of this Chapter.
§ 3-6C-6 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Village Police Chief, Village Fire
Chief and Director of Community Development to make or cause to make such
inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with all provisions of
this Article and all building, fire and health regulations of this Code.
CHAPTER 7: CHILDCARE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
Section
Article A. Daycare Centers and Homes
   
3-7A-1   Daycare Centers
   
3-7A-1-1   Definitions
   
3-7A-1-2   License Required
   
3-7A-1-3   Application for License; Investigation
   
3-7A-1-4   Restrictions on Issuance of License
   
3-7A-1-5   Additional Investigations; Criminal History
   
3-7A-1-6   License and Permit Fees   
   
3-7A-1-7   State Licensing Regulations Adopted; Amendments
   
3-7A-1-8   Building and Premises
   
3-7A-1-9   Health and Sanitation Procedures
   
3-7A-1-10   Inspections
   
3-7A-1-11   Suspension or Revocation of License or Permit
   
3-7A-1-12   Penalties
   
3-7A-2   Daycare Homes
   
3-7A-2-1   Definition
   
3-7A-2-2   Licenses Required
   
3-7A-2-3   Application for License
   
3-7A-2-4   License Fee
   
3-7A-2-5   State Licensing Standards Adopted; Amendments
   
3-7A-2-6   Inspections
   
3-7A-2-7   Penalties
**** ARTICLE A. DAYCARE CENTERS AND HOMES ****
§ 3-7A-1 DAYCARE CENTERS.
§ 3-7A-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Section
3-7A-1, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this Section:
   DAYCARE CENTER: A facility, other than within a residential dwelling unit,
which exclusively provides supplemental care and supervision, recreation and/or
educational instruction to children or adults during the entire or any portion
of the day. Daycare Centers shall be in keep with current state regulations.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY: The Village of Elk Grove Village Department of
Community Development or an authorized representative thereof.
§ 3-7A-1-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, operate, carry on
or manage a daycare center, either by themself or through an agent, employee or
partner, without first having obtained a license as is herein provided.
§ 3-7A-1-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION.
   An application for a license under this Section shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Title relating to application for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) Such application shall contain: a) the location of the
daycare center for which a license is sought; b) the name and address of the
applicant if an individual and if a firm, partnership or association, the name
of every member thereof, and in the case of a corporation, the principal
address of the corporation and name and address of its officers; c) the name of
the person or persons under whose management or supervision the daycare center
will be conducted; and d) such other information as deemed necessary by the
Village to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Section
3-7A-1.
   Upon receipt of an application for a daycare center license, the Regulatory
Authority shall cause an investigation to be made with respect to the
eligibility of the applicant for such license. Said investigation shall include
inspections by the Department of Community Development, Fire Department and
Police Department to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Section
3-7A-1 and applicable building and fire prevention codes of the Village.
§ 3-7A-1-4 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   B.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other similar crime or
misdemeanor;
   C.   A person whose license issued under this Title has been revoked for
cause;
   D.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   E.   A partnership unless all members of such partnership shall be qualified
to receive a license;
   F.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, director or any stockholder
owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of the corporation would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder.
§ 3-7A-1-5 ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; CRIMINAL HISTORY.
   In order to ensure that all licensees and employees are qualified to render
care to young children, the Village Police Department may conduct a criminal
record search of all applicants for a license and for employee permits. A
license or permit may be denied if the criminal record transcript indicates
that the applicant:
   A.   Has been identified through circuit court (juvenile, criminal, civil)
proceedings as having been a perpetrator of child sexual abuse or any
individual who has been identified in the investigatory process in accordance
with the Abused and Neglected Child Reporting Act (325 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) as
having been a perpetrator of an indicated incident of child abuse, child
neglect or child sexual abuse;
   B.   Has been convicted of a felony;
   C.   Falsified an application for a license or permit issued hereunder.
§ 3-7A-1-6 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   The annual license fee for daycare centers shall be as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title. No fee shall be charged for an employee permit.
§ 3-7A-1-7 STATE LICENSING REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   There is hereby adopted the licensing standards for daycare centers as
promulgated by the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services and any
amendments thereto, being Ill. Admin. Code tit. 89, § 407.40 et seq., as
additional licensing requirements of the Village with the same force and effect
as if fully set forth herein, which are available for viewing in the Department
of Community Development.
§ 3-7A-1-8 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   A.   Generally: The premises and facilities used in a daycare center shall
comply with all building, zoning, fire, health and sanitation regulations of
the Village. (See Titles 8, 5 and 4 of this Code for building, fire, health and
sanitation regulations.)
   B.   Plan Review of Future Construction: Whenever a day care establishment
is constructed or remodeled and whenever an existing structure is converted to
use as a day care establishment, properly prepared plans and specifications for
such construction, remodeling or conversion shall be submitted to the
Regulatory Authority for review and approval before construction, remodeling or
conversion can begin. The plans and specifications shall, at a minimum,
indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical plans and construction
materials of child areas and the type of model of proposed fixed equipment and
facilities.
   The Regulatory Authority shall approve the plans and specifications if they
meet the requirements of this Section. No day care establishment shall be
constructed, remodeled or converted except in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Department of Community Development and Fire
Department.
§ 3-7A-1-9 HEALTH AND SANITATION PROCEDURES.
   A.   Suspected Infection: When the Regulatory Authority has reasonable cause
to suspect the possibility of disease from any day care establishment employee,
which disease is contagious or the transmission of which is injurious to the
health of the children occupying the center, it shall secure a morbidity
history of the suspected employee or make any other investigation as may be
indicated and take appropriate action. The Village may require any or all of
the following measures:
      1.   Immediate closure of the day care establishment until, in the
opinion of the Regulatory Authority, no further danger of disease outbreak
exists;
      2.   Restriction of employee’s services to some area of the establishment
where there will be no danger of transmitting disease;
      3.   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee or
other employees and of his/her or their body discharges.
   B.   Examination of Food and Equipment:
   Food shall be cooked or prepared at the Daycare Center or by a licensed
catering service in a kitchen which has been inspected and approved in
accordance with the Illinois Food Code.
§ 3-7A-1-10 INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Authority: It shall be the responsibility of the Regulatory Authority,
Director of Community Development and Fire Chief to make or cause to be made
such inspections to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Section and
all other ordinances relating hereto. At least once every twelve (12) months
the Regulatory Authority shall inspect each day care center within the Village
and shall make as many additional inspections and reinspections as are
necessary for the enforcement of this Section.
   B.   Entry Powers: The Regulatory Authority or his/her designated agent,
after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter at any reasonable time
any day care establishment in the Village for the purpose of making inspections
to determine compliance with this Section. He/she shall be permitted to examine
the records of the establishment to obtain pertinent information pertaining to
public health and safety.
   C.   Inspection Report: Whenever an inspection of a day care establishment
is made, the findings shall be recorded on an inspection report. One copy of
the inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in charge of the
establishment and the licensee if other than the person in charge.
   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable period of
time for the correction of the violations found, and correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified. If an imminent
health hazard exists, the establishment shall immediately cease operations.
Operations shall not be resumed until authorized by the Village.
   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any time
limits for corrections may result in cessation of day care operations.
§ 3-7A-1-11 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   A.   Generally: A license or permit may be denied, suspended, revoked or not
renewed for failure to comply with the provisions of this Section for any of
the following reasons:
      1.   Obtaining or attempting to obtain a permit by fraudulent means or
misrepresentation;
      2.   Permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of any illegal act on
the premises;
      3.   Permitting, aiding or abetting the abuse, neglect, exploitation or
cruel or indifferent care to persons under care;
      4.   Repeatedly providing insufficient personnel relative to the number
and types of persons under care or allowing persons unqualified by training,
experience or temperament to care for or be in contact with the persons under
care;
      5.   Failure to provide adequate supervision to persons under care;
      6.   Refusal to admit authorized representatives of the Village or Fire
Department to inspect the premises; and
      7.   Refusal to permit authorized representatives of the Village to
obtain pertinent information pertaining to public health and safety or to
permit them to interview agency staff and clients.
   B.   Suspension of License: Licenses may be suspended temporarily by the
Regulatory Authority for failure of the licensee to comply with the
requirements of this Section. Whenever a license holder has failed to comply
with any provisions of this Section, the license holder shall be notified, in
writing, that the license may be subject to being suspended and that an
opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request for a hearing
is filed with the Regulatory Authority by the permit holder within five (5)
days of the receipt of such notice.
   Upon suspension of the license, the license shall be removed from the
establishment. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section, whenever
the Regulatory Authority finds unsanitary or other conditions in the operation
of a daycare center which, in his/her judgment, constitute a substantial hazard
to the public health, he/she may, without warning, notice or hearing, issue a
written notice to the license holder citing such condition, specify the
corrective action to be taken and specify the time period within which such
action shall be taken and, if deemed necessary, such order shall state that the
license is immediately suspended, and all operations at the day care center are
to be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom such an order is issued
shall comply immediately therewith but, upon written petition to the Regulatory
Authority, shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
   Any person whose license has been suspended may at any time make application
for a reinspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the license. Within five
(5) days following receipt of a written request, including a statement signed
by the applicant that, in their opinion, the conditions causing suspension of
the license have been corrected, the Regulatory Authority shall make a
reinspection.
   If the applicant is complying with the requirements of this Section, the
license shall be reinstated.
   C.   Revocation of License: For serious or repeated violations of any of the
requirements of this Section, or for interference with the Regulatory Authority
in the performance of his/her duties, the license may be permanently revoked
after an opportunity for a hearing has been provided before the Mayor and Board
of Trustees. Prior to such action, the Regulatory Authority shall notify the
license holder, in writing, stating the reasons for which the license is
subject to revocation and advising that the license shall be permanently
revoked at the end of five (5) days following service of such notice, unless a
request for a hearing is filed with the Regulatory Authority, by the license
holder, within such five (5) day period. A license may be suspended for cause
pending its revocation or a hearing relative thereto.
   D.   Hearing: The hearings provided for in this Section, except for
revocation hearings, shall be conducted by the Regulatory Authority at a time
and place designated by it. The Regulatory Authority shall make a final finding
based upon the hearing record and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice
or order considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision
shall be furnished to the holder of the license by the Regulatory Authority.
Appeals from the decision of the Regulatory Authority on orders of suspension
and all hearings with respect to revocation shall be before the Mayor and Board
of Trustees.
§ 3-7A-1-12 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation, and a separate violation shall be
deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues to exist.
   In addition thereto, the Village may proceed by injunction in the Third
Municipal District of the Circuit Court of Cook County or the Chancery Division
of the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin any violation of this Section
which is deemed by the Village to be injurious to the health, safety and
welfare of the occupants of the license premises.
§ 3-7A-2 DAYCARE HOMES.
§ 3-7A-2-1 DEFINITION.
   DAY CARE HOMES: Family homes which receive more than three (3) up to a
maximum of eight (8) children for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. The
maximum of eight (8) children includes the family’s natural, foster or adopted
children and all other persons under the age of twelve (12) years. The term
does not include facilities which receive only children from single households.
§ 3-7A-2-2 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   A.   Village License: It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct,
maintain, operate or carry on a day care home without first having obtained a
license as is herein provided.
   B.   State License: In addition to the license requirement contained herein,
each home must be licensed by the Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services. Pending the issuance of a State license, operation of a home with a
State permit shall be permitted provided an application for a Village license
has been filed.
§ 3-7A-2-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license shall be made to the Village upon forms
provided by the Finance Department and shall contain such information as is
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Section
3-7A-2 and with the Licensing Standards for Daycare Homes prescribed by the
Office of Child Development of the Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services, being Ill. Admin. Code tit. 89, Part 406, as hereinafter adopted by
reference.
   All information contained on said application must be current and any
changes therein must be reported to the Finance Department within two (2) weeks
of any such change.
§ 3-7A-2-4 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for daycare homes shall be as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-7A-2-5 STATE LICENSING STANDARDS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   The Village hereby adopts the license standards for daycare homes prescribed
by the Office of Child Development of the Illinois Department of Children and
Family Services and any amendments thereto, being Ill. Admin. Code tit. 89,
Part 406, as additional licensing requirements of the Village with the same
force and effect as if fully set forth herein, which are available for viewing
in the Department of Community Development. Said licensing standards are hereby
amended as follows:
   Paragraph 17 pertaining to safety of the physical facilities is amended by
adding the following requirements, which requirements, when contradictory to or
inconsistent with other safety requirements therein set forth, shall take
precedence.
      1.   In existing buildings, the electrical wiring shall be sized to
provide for the load. Electrical appliances shall be grounded in accordance
with the most recent version of the National Electrical Code, NFPA 70.
Receptacles and outlets serviced by extension cord-type wiring are prohibited.
      2.   Unvented room heaters shall not be permitted. Oil and gas fired room
heaters shall be installed in accordance with applicable standards pertaining
thereto.
      3.   No stove or combustion heater shall be so located as to block escape
in case of malfunctioning of the stove or heater.
      4.   At least one operable flashlight shall be provided at each level of
occupancy, accessible to the staff for use in the event of a power failure.
      5.   In a one or two family dwelling or building used for child care
purposes, every room used for sleeping, living or dining purposes shall have at
least two (2) means of egress, at least one of which shall be a door or
stairway providing a means of unobstructed travel to the outside of the
building at street or ground level. No room or space shall be occupied for
living or sleeping purposes which is accessible only by a ladder.
      6.   Where children are located on a floor (basement) below the floor of
exit discharge, at least one exit shall be provided directly to the outside at
ground level. No facility shall be located more than one story below the
ground.
      7.   Every stairway shall comply at least with the minimum requirements
for Class B stairs, in respect to width, risers and treads as set forth in the
most recent edition of the International Residential Code adopted by the
Village, and shall be maintained free of items of storage.
      8.   Each door in a means of egress shall be not less than twenty-four
inches (24") wide.
      9.   Every closet door latch shall be such that children can open the
door from inside the closet.
      10.   Every bathroom door lock shall be designed to permit the opening of
the locked door from the outside in an emergency and the opening device shall
be readily accessible to the staff.
      11.   The interior finish in means of egress shall be Class A or B in
accordance with the most recent edition of the International Residential Code
adopted by the Village.
      12.   The installation of one or more basic smoke detectors plus
additional heat or smoke detectors as follows.
         a.   A basic smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
separate sleeping area.
         b.   Smoke detectors shall be installed in the furnace room and/or
basement as approved by the Fire Department.
         c.   Smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with the most
recent edition of the International Residential Code and Fire Code adopted by
the Village.
      13.   A portable fire extinguisher suitable for Class B fires shall be
provided for the kitchen and cooking areas.
   Paragraph 18 pertaining to Kitchens shall be amended by adding thereto the
following:
      All licensed day care homes must comply with applicable sections of the
Illinois Food Code or any amendments or changes thereto.
§ 3-7A-2-6 INSPECTIONS.
   The Department of Community Development and Fire Department are hereby
authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Section
3-7A-2. It shall be the duty of the licensee to admit onto the premises, any
employee or agent of the Village who is authorized or directed to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested. The Department
of Community Development shall be responsible for coordinating all annual
inspections and any periodic inspections which may be required to ensure
compliance with this Section
3-7A-2.
§ 3-7A-2-7 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Section
3-7A-2 shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation, and a
separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or
continues to exist.
   In addition thereto, the Village may proceed by injunction in the Third
Municipal District of the Circuit Court of Cook County to enjoin any violation
of this Section
3-7A-2 which is deemed by the Village to be injurious to the health, safety and
welfare of the occupants of the licensed premises.
CHAPTER 8: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
Article A. Peddlers
   
3-8A-1   License Required
   
3-8A-2   Application
   
3-8A-3   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-8A-4   Inspections
Article B. Solicitors 
   
3-8B-1   Definitions
   
3-8B-2   Certificate of Registration Required; Fee
   
3-8B-3   Application for Certificate
   
3-8B-4   Restrictions on Issuance of Certificate
   
3-8B-5   Denial or Issuance of Certificate; Fees; Renewals; Visibility
   
3-8B-6   Village Policy on Soliciting
   
3-8B-7   Duty of Solicitors
   
3-8B-8   Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
   
3-8B-9   Time Limit on Soliciting
   
3-8B-10   Revocation of Certificate
   
3-8B-11   On-Street Solicitation
   
3-8B-12   Halloween Solicitation
   
3-8B-13   Penalty
**** ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS ****
§ 3-8A-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a peddler, either by
themself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first having
obtained a license as is herein provided. A “peddler” shall mean any person
who, going from place to place, shall sell, offer for sale, sell and deliver,
barter or exchange any goods, merchandise, article or thing in the Village.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see also Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-8A-2 APPLICATION.
   An application for a license under this Article shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. (See also Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) A peddler’s application shall specify the kind of
merchandise or article to be peddled and the number of vehicles, if any,
intended to be operated by the licensee.
§ 3-8A-3 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   It shall be illegal for any peddler to peddle any goods, merchandise,
articles or things other than those specified in the application.
   B.   No peddler shall conduct business between the hours of seven o’clock
(7:00) P.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.
   C.   No peddler shall conduct business on Sundays.
   D.   No peddler shall conduct business on any public property. No peddler
shall conduct business within residential areas of the Village.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to disturb or attempt to gain
entrance to any premises which has posted a sign which states to the effect
that no peddlers or no solicitors are invited. Any peddler who has gained
entrance to any premises, whether invited or not, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the owner or
occupant.
§ 3-8A-4 INSPECTIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made
such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this Article and all other ordinances relating hereto.
**** ARTICLE B. SOLICITORS ****
§ 3-8B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Article, the following words and terms mean and include
those definitions ascribed to them in this Section:
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided and which certificate is in the possession
of the solicitor on their person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities within residential
areas of the Village:
      1.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuff, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
      2.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      3.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
      4.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project; or
      5.   Seeking to sell, offer for sale, sell and deliver, barter or
exchange any goods, merchandise, article or thing.
§ 3-8B-2 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; FEE.
   Every person desiring to engage in “soliciting”, as herein defined, from
persons or residences within this Municipality, is hereby required to make
written application for a certificate of registration as herein provided, which
application must be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee of forty
dollars ($40.00).
§ 3-8B-3 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the Village Clerk and filed with such Clerk. The applicant shall
truthfully state in full the information requested on the application, as
follows:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address if other than residence address; also
social security number;
   B.   Applicant date of birth;
   C.   Physical description of the applicant;
   D.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association whom
the applicant is employed by or represents, and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
   E.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
   F.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
   G.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this Article, if any;
   H.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
Article ever been revoked;
   I.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Article or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
   J.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or federal law of
the United States;
   K.   Also, such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application. All statements made by the applicant upon
the application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in the office of the Village Clerk
an accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with
all other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this Article and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
§ 3-8B-4 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois
or any other state or federal law of the United States within five (5) years of
the date of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this Article, nor to any person whose
certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as
herein provided. No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person
under the age of eighteen (18).
§ 3-8B-5 DENIAL OR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE; FEES; RENEWALS; VISIBILITY.
   The Village Clerk, after consideration of the application and all the
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this Article.
Any applicant denied a certificate of registration shall not be entitled to the
nonrefundable application fee.
   When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of
registration shall be issued forthwith. The fee for the initial certificate of
registration shall be forty dollars ($40.00) for a thirty (30) day period,
which fee shall be payable from the application fee previously submitted. Any
individual who wishes to renew the certificate of registration for additional
thirty (30) day periods shall be required to pay a fifteen dollar ($15.00)
renewal fee for each thirty (30) day period, provided that, no certificate of
registration or renewal thereof shall be issued for more than a ninety (90) day
period. The certificate of registration shall be on the solicitor at all times
while engaging in soliciting and shall be located so as to be visible to all
persons being solicited.
§ 3-8B-6 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this Article shall comply
with the following directions.
      Notice of the determination by the occupant or owner to refuse invitation
to solicitors to any residence shall be exhibited upon or near the main
entrance door to the residence containing applicable wording, such as “No
Solicitors Invited”.
      Such notice shall be of a weatherproof construction with letters at least
one-third inch (1/3") in height on sharply contrasted background and provided
at the occupant’s or owner’s expense.
      Such notice so exhibited shall constitute sufficient warning to any
solicitor that further invasion of the property will constitute a trespass in
accordance with the provisions of this Code. (See Section
6-6-2-2 of this Code.)
§ 3-8B-7 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises in the
Municipality to first examine if notice provided for in Section
3-8B-6 of this Article is attached and to be governed by the statement
contained on such notice. If the notice states “No Solicitors Invited” or words
to that effect, then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises. Any solicitor who has
gained entrance to any residence or business, whether invited or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by
the occupant.
§ 3-8B-8 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in “soliciting” as herein defined in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of
Section
3-8B-6 of Article.
§ 3-8B-9 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and, therefore, unlawful for any
person, whether registered under Article or not, to go upon any premises and
ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon or rap
or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in “soliciting” as
herein defined prior to nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o’clock (8:00)
P.M. of any weekday, Monday through Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on
a state or national holiday.
§ 3-8B-10 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the
Village Clerk if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of Article or has made a false material statement in the
application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of Article. Immediately upon such
revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Village Clerk to the
holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to
their residence address set forth in the application.
   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void.
§ 3-8B-11 ON-STREET SOLICITATION.
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to publicly
solicit, either in person or by agent, upon the streets or other public places
in the Village without having first secured a permit therefor, which permit
must be on the solicitor’s person at all times when solicitation occurs.
   B.   Application for Permit: Application for a solicitor’s permit shall be
made to the Village Clerk at least one month in advance of the proposed date
for the solicitation and shall set forth the full name and address of the
applicant or applicants, the day or days requested for such permit, the
specific location for which the solicitation is requested and such other
information which the Village Clerk shall deem necessary. No date will be
reserved for solicitation until all required documentation has been submitted
to the Village Clerk.
   C.   Regulations for On-Street Solicitation:
      1.   Solicitation on roadways within the Village shall be allowed only at
intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full stop.
      2.   Solicitation shall comply with the following regulations.
         a.   The soliciting agency shall be registered with the attorney
general as a charitable organization as provided by “an act to regulate
solicitation and collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for
violations thereof, and making an appropriation therefor”, being the
Solicitation for Charity Act, 225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.
         b.   The soliciting agency shall be engaged in a statewide fundraising
activity. “Statewide fundraising activity” shall mean fundraising throughout
the State of Illinois which occurs on the same day or days.
         c.   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be sixteen
(16) years of age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest.
      3.   No permit shall be issued to more than one person or agency on any
given day or days, nor shall any permit be issued for more than three (3)
consecutive days.
      4.   No permit shall be issued to any person or agency more than once in
a calendar year.
      5.   Solicitation shall only be permitted on Thursdays, Fridays,
Saturdays or Sundays between the hours of:
         Six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. from May 1
through September 30; and
         Seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and five o’clock (5:00) P.M. from October 1
through April 30.
      6.   Solicitation may be limited to one intersection on any given day or
days, as determined by the Chief of Police or their designated agent, or also
in the case of the conduct of any solicitor being deemed to be detrimental to
public safety or welfare.
      7.   In case of an emergency or dangerous or potentially dangerous
situation, the Village shall have the authority to suspend or revoke any
solicitor’s permit for such period of time as deemed necessary under the
circumstances.
   D.   Insurance Required: Prior to the issuance of a solicitation permit, the
applicant shall provide the Village Clerk with a certificate of insurance
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of Illinois
indicating that the insurance company will insure the solicitor and the
business or organization represented by the solicitor against any injury to any
person or property during the solicitation. Such certificate of insurance shall
name the Village as an additional party insured and provide, at a minimum, the
following coverage:
      1.   Personal injury coverage of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) per person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence;
      2.   Property damage coverage of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00).
§ 3-8B-12 HALLOWEEN SOLICITATION.
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, “solicitation” shall mean
seeking or obtaining gifts, food, candy or contributions of money, as is
customary in the celebration of Halloween Day.
   B.   Soliciting Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether
alone or in a group, to conduct such solicitation as set forth in Subsection A
of this Section on any day other than October 31; provided further, that all
solicitation on October 31 shall not commence prior to three o’clock (3:00)
P.M. and be terminated by eight o’clock (8:00) P.M.
§ 3-8B-13 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of Article shall be subject to
a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
CHAPTER 9: CONTRACTORS
Section
Article A. Construction Contractors
   
3-9A-1   Definition
   
3-9A-2   License Required
   
3-9A-3   Application for License
   
3-9A-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-9A-5   Inspections
**** ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS ****
§ 3-9A-1 DEFINITION.
   “Building contractor” shall mean and include anyone engaged in the business
of constructing, altering or repairing buildings or structures or sidewalks or
street pavements including, but not limited to, cement or concrete contracting,
either flat, form or wall work or as a masonry contractor or as a carpenter
contractor, provided that the provisions of this Article shall not be construed
to require a license for roofing contractors who have licenses issued by the
State of Illinois (which licenses shall be either displayed or on the person of
a roofing contractor when doing work in the Village), the operation of the
business of plumbing contractors or for electrical contractors who have
registered with other municipalities.
   “Outdoor advertiser” shall mean any person engaged in the business of
placing, posting or painting any sign, advertisement, notice or display in or
on any place for the purpose of outdoor advertising so that the resultant
display is visible from any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
§ 3-9A-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a building contractor or
outdoor advertiser, either by themself or through an agent, employee or
partner, without first having obtained a license as is herein provided.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-9A-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a building contractor’s or outdoor advertiser license
shall be made in conformity with the general requirements of this Code relating
to applications for licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) The application shall also set forth the type of
contracting activity for which a license is requested.
§ 3-9A-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Subcontractors: Any person doing business as a subcontractor shall be
construed as engaged in the business of building contractor for which a license
is required by this Article.
   B.   Building Permits Required: It shall be the absolute and irrevocable
responsibility of all building contractors and outdoor advertisers licensed
hereunder to secure the appropriate and necessary building permits required by
the Elk Grove Village Building Code (see Title 8, Chapter 3 of this Code)
before undertaking to construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve,
move, wreck or demolish the whole or any part of any building, structure or
sidewalk or street pavements.
   C.   Compliance with Provisions; Waste Removal: It shall also be the duty of
all building contractors licensed hereunder to comply with all the provisions
of this Code relating to or regulating their activities as building contractors
and, in addition thereto, to remove or cause to be removed at least once a week
from the site of said building contractor’s activities all trash, refuse and
waste materials.
   D.   Health and Safety Conditions of Building Site: Building contractors and
outdoor advertisers shall at all times keep the site of activities in an
orderly condition, free from standing water, unguarded dangerous implements and
health and safety hazards.
   E.   Traffic Obstructions Prohibited: Building contractors and outdoor
advertisers shall not obstruct traffic, streets or sidewalks nor permit dirt or
waste materials from falling or being carried onto such public ways.
   F.   Consent of Property Owners: It shall be unlawful to perform any work
requiring a construction permit on a premises in the Village without the
consent of the owner of such premises. Such consent must be in writing and must
be filed with the Department of Community Development with the application for
a construction permit.
§ 3-9A-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development,
Chief of Police and Fire Chief to make or cause to be made such inspections as
may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article and
all other ordinances relating hereto.
CHAPTER 10: SCAVENGERS, SCRAP DEALERS AND COLLECTION BOXES
Section
Article A. Scavengers
   
3-10A-1   Definitions
   
3-10A-2   License Required; Renewal; Revocation
   
3-10A-3   Application for License; Fees
   
3-10A-4   Bond and Insurance Requirements
   
3-10A-5   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-10A-6   Residential Recycling
   
3-10A-7   Industrial or Commercial Recycling
   
3-10A-8   Inspections
Article B. Scrap Dealers
   
3-10B-1   Definitions
   
3-10B-2   License Required
   
3-10B-3   Application for License; Fee
   
3-10B-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-10B-5   Inspections
Article C. Collection Boxes
   
3-10C-1   Definitions
   
3-10C-2   License Required
   
3-10C-3   Application for License; Fee
   
3-10C-4   Requirements and Restrictions
   
3-10C-5   Revocation of License
   
3-10C-6   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and refuse regulations, see also Title 4, Chapter 4 of this Code
**** ARTICLE A. SCAVENGERS ****
§ 3-10A-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ACCOUNT: The physical location where the licensee provides service for the
collection of any solid waste, refuse, recyclables and/or yard waste. Any
account where more than one business address is serviced shall have each
business address counted as a single account. Any account where one business
has more than one address shall be counted as a single account.
   SCAVENGER: Any person engaged in the removal and disposal of table refuse or
animal and vegetable matter, usually known as “garbage”, from hotels,
restaurants, cafes, boarding houses, cafeterias, residences, commercial or
industrial establishments and any other place within the Village wherein food
is served or is obtained upon the premises; or the removal and disposal of
ashes, cinders, discarded building materials or like material having no
commercial resale value; or the removal or disposal of manure, swill or any
animal or vegetable residue and waste from any place where such may accumulate.
“Scavenger” shall also mean any person engaged in the collection,
transportation and/or processing of recyclable materials and the collection and
disposal of yard waste, provided that scavenger shall not include scrap dealers
as defined in Article B of this Chapter.
   GEOGRAPHICAL SERVICE AREA SCAVENGER: A scavenger who operates in the single-
family detached and attached residences, multi-family residences, congregate
housing units and such other similar uses in residential zoned districts of the
Village.
   HAZARDOUS AND SPECIAL WASTE HAULER: A scavenger who hauls such hazardous or
special waste or such material which requires special licensing by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER: A scavenger who operates in the commercial
and/or industrial zoned areas of the Village.
   TEMPORARY ROLL-OFF CONTAINER SERVICE SCAVENGER: A scavenger who utilizes and
services roll-off containers at various job sites on a temporary (less than 4
months per site) basis.
§ 3-10A-2 LICENSE REQUIRED; RENEWAL; REVOCATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate as a scavenger, either by
themself or through an agent, employee or partner, without first having
obtained a license as is herein provided. A license shall be required for
scavenger service for the defined geographical service areas as determined by
the Village in Ordinance 2221, commercial and industrial zoned areas of the
Village, special and hazardous waste haulers and temporary roll-off container
service. Service to properties in the geographical service area are provided
exclusively by an agreement between the Village and individual contractor(s).
The character of the license shall be designated on the application and on the
licensing document itself. Said license shall create no vested interest in the
licensee and may be issued or renewed or revoked at the discretion of the Mayor
and Board of Trustees at the end of any licensing period, with or without
cause.
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see also Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-10A-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES.
   A.   Application: An application for a license under this Chapter shall be
made on forms provided by the Finance Department and shall be in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses.
   B.   Industrial/Commercial Scavenger:
      1.   Flat Fee: Two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   Account Fee: Five dollars twenty-five cents ($5.25) per month, per
account, payable quarterly, the total fee to be based on the number of accounts
at the beginning of each license year.
      3.   Surcharge Fee/Appeal: The fees as established in this Section are
based on information with respect to the number of accounts, which information
is to be provided by each licensee. The licensee will also provide the name of
the customers of all accounts submitted. The Village reserves the right to spot
check industrial and commercial firms to verify the information received in a
license application or a fee payment attachment, which attachment lists the
number and names of each account. Should the information submitted be
inaccurate, purposely deceptive or misleading or, in effect, consist of a
methodology wherein the true and correct license fee is being avoided, then the
Village reserves the right to assess any such violating licensee a license fee
surcharge of up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), to be prorated for the
current license year in which the violation is committed and thereafter,
annually, for a period not to exceed two (2) additional licensing periods. Any
scavenger assessed a surcharge license fee by the Village shall have a right to
appeal such surcharge at a public hearing before the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. The request for an appeal must be directed to the Village within
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice of the license surcharge by the
scavenger licensee.
   C.   Other Fees:
      1.   Hazardous and special waste hauler: Two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) per license year.
      2.   Temporary roll-off container service scavenger: Five hundred dollars
($500.00) per license year.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see also Section
3-1-3 of this Title
§ 3-10A-4 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Bond: All applications shall be accompanied by a surety bond in the
amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) guaranteeing adherence by the
applicant to all Village ordinances and regulations.
   B.   Insurance: The scavenger shall carry both general and auto liability
insurance as follows: personal injury at a level not less than two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) to five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) and property damage at a level not less than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) and shall include the Village of Elk Grove Village as an
additional named insured on both policies. All insurance premiums shall be paid
by the scavenger with no cost to the Village. A certificate of insurance shall
be provided to the Village.
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see also Section
1-8-4 of this Code
§ 3-10A-5 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Hours Collection Prohibited: Garbage shall not be collected by any
scavenger service before the hour of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. in a residential
area or any area abutting a residential area.
   B.   Vehicles: Any vehicle used for such scavenging in its business shall
maintain all safety equipment and proper weight licenses as required by the
state and shall be watertight and equipped with airtight covers for such
portions as are used for the transportation of refuse. It shall be unlawful for
any such vehicle to be driven over or through any street in the Village during
or on a Sunday.
   C.   Scattering Garbage and Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a
scavenger, while collecting or transporting garbage or refuse in the Village,
to scatter or allow to be scattered any garbage or refuse in such a manner as
to create a public health hazard.
   D.   Garbage and Refuse Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to
dispose or to store any refuse in any place within the Village limits or within
one mile thereof, except with the permission of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. The scavenger shall disclose the location of the disposal site and
shall comply with all laws of the state and of the corporate authorities of the
area within which such sites are situated.
   E.   Removal of Recycled Materials Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized scavenger to remove any item including, but not limited to,
newspapers, aluminum or bi-metal cans, glass bottles or plastic milk containers
placed in or adjacent to Village recycling containers.
Cross-reference:
   Removal of recycled materials prohibited, see also Section
4-4-4 of this Code
§ 3-10A-6 RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING.
   A.   Properties Within the Defined Geographical Service Area: The licensee
(s) for properties within the geographical service area shall provide for
recycling of materials designated by the Village. Any contract(s) between the
licensed scavenger(s) and the Village shall provide for the collection,
transportation and for processing of the recyclable material in accordance with
applicable laws and regulations. The licensee(s) may contract with a secondary
scavenger(s), licensed by the Village, to administer the recycling program.
   B.   Recycling Vehicles; Fee:
      1.   The licensed scavenger(s) shall be responsible for furnishing,
maintaining and replacing all recycling vehicles which are deemed necessary in
the recycling program. On a monthly basis, the scavenger(s) shall rebate to the
Village a flat fee per ton of recyclable material collected. This fee shall be
determined by the Village and agreed to by the Geographical Service Area
Scavenger(s) in the solid waste contracts for single-family detached and
attached residences, multi-family properties and congregate housing units. The
scavenger shall furnish a monthly statement for all residential recycling to
the Village showing the weight of recycled materials collected.
      2.   The Village retains the option of having the scavenger’s books and
records of accounts audited by a certified public accountant at the Village’s
expense.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of Subsection B of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In
addition to or independent of any such penalties imposed, the scavenger may be
subject to having the scavenger license suspended or revoked for not adhering
to the provisions of Subsection B of this Section.
§ 3-10A-7 INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL RECYCLING.
   A.   All scavengers licensed by Elk Grove Village to service industrial or
commercial properties in the Village shall, as part of their licensing
requirements, offer a recycling program to their clients. As a minimum the
recycling program shall include the following: office paper, cardboard and
glass and aluminum containers. The scavenger shall process, store and market
the recyclable materials to an end user.
   B.   The scavenger shall also be required to deliver to each client
information on the type of program they offer, and the items they include for
recycling. All promotional materials must be approved by the Village.
   C.   The licensed scavenger shall furnish monthly totals to the Village for
the purpose of monitoring compliances with this Section, indicating the number
of clients, the number of clients participating in the recycling program and
the amount of materials recycled by category. In addition, the scavenger shall
provide the Village with the total amount of materials sent to the landfill.
These shall be given in tons or containers with estimated tonnage. The Village
retains the option of having the scavenger’s books and records audited by a
certified public accountant at the Village’s expense, to verify the information
provided to the Village.
   D.   The scavenger has the option of contracting with a secondary scavenger,
licensed with the Village to administer the industrial or commercial recycling
program.
   E.   The licensed scavenger shall be responsible for furnishing, maintaining
and replacing all recycling containers and vehicles which are deemed necessary
in the recycling program.
§ 3-10A-8 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development and
Chief of Police to inspect or cause to be made such inspections as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and all
other ordinances relating hereto.
**** ARTICLE B. SCRAP DEALERS ****
§ 3-10B-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   SCRAP: Any old iron, chain, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals;
old rope, bags, rags or other discarded cloth or similar material; wood scrap,
used wooden pallets and other discarded wood material; paper and paper
products; such other articles or things which are discarded or no longer used
as a manufacturing article, which materials have a resale value, whether in a
processed state or as refurbished.
   SCRAP DEALER: A person, firm or corporation who deals in scrap material,
including the collection, transportation, processing, refurbishing and
disposition thereof.
§ 3-10B-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate as a
scrap dealer, either by themself or through an agent, employee or partner,
without first having obtained a license as is herein provided.
§ 3-10B-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   An application for a license under Article shall be made in conformity with
the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. An
application for a scrap dealer’s license shall specify the kind of merchandise
or article which the licensee intends to deal in and the number of vehicles, if
any, intended to be operated by the licensee. The fee for a scrap dealer’s
license shall be as established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-10B-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   A vehicle used for dealing in scrap shall maintain all safety equipment
and proper weight licenses as required by the state.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any such vehicle to be driven over or through
any street in the Village during or on a Sunday.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for a scrap dealer, while collecting or
transporting scrap material in the Village, to scatter or allow to be scattered
any discarded material or refuse in such a manner as to create a public health
hazard or nuisance.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any scrap dealer to haul any material other
than “scrap” as herein defined, such as garbage, which material would require a
scavenger license.
§ 3-10B-5 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Community Development and
Chief of Police to inspect or cause to be made such inspections as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of Article and all other
ordinances relating hereto.
**** ARTICLE C. COLLECTION BOXES ****
§ 3-10C-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   COLLECTION BOX: An unattended container, receptacle or similar device that
is used for soliciting and collecting donations of clothing or other
salvageable personal property. This term does not include any unattended
collection box located within a building.
   RETAIL CENTER: Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores and/or
service establishments in one or more buildings, or on one or more adjacent
lots, under single ownership or management or multiple ownership on contiguous
or adjacent lots with one or more of the following:
      1.   Common parking facilities;
      2.   Common stormwater detention, drainage or storm sewer facilities;
      3.   Common water distribution facilities;
      4.   Common sanitary sewer facilities;
      5.   Nonexclusive ingress or egress from public streets.
§ 3-10C-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place a
collection box or to allow to be placed or permit the placement of a collection
box on their own property without first having obtained a license as herein
provided.
§ 3-10C-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   An application for a license under Article shall be made in conformity with
the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for licenses. An
application for the placement of a collection box shall specify the type of
merchandise being collected and the number of and locations of the collection
boxes being placed. The fee for a collection box license shall be as
established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-10C-4 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Placement of a collection box is permitted only in retail centers,
schools, churches and buildings owned and operated by not for profit
organizations.
   B.   The collection box owner shall submit written authorization from the
property owner consenting to the placement of a collection box on the subject
property.
   C.   Collection boxes must display the license sticker on the front of the
collection box.
   D.   Collection box owners must respond to any and all complaints regarding
collection box maintenance within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving
notification Monday through Friday and forty-eight (48) hours of receiving
notification Saturday and Sunday.
   E.   Collection boxes shall not be on any permeable surface.
   F.   Collection boxes shall not be placed within a required front or corner
side yard, or major arterial setback. To the extent feasible, collection boxes
shall be placed in the rear or side of a property so as to be inconspicuous as
viewed from public rights-of-way.
   G.   Collection boxes shall not be placed in such a manner as to cause a
sight obstruction for pedestrians or motorists.
   H.   Only one collection box shall be permitted per lot or per retail
center, school, church or not for profit organization property, whichever is
more restrictive.
   I.   Collection boxes shall not exceed six and one-half feet (6.5') in
height.
   J.   Collection boxes shall not possess a footprint exceeding twenty (20')
square feet.
   K.   Collection boxes shall indicate whether the operator is a for profit or
not for profit organization in two inch (2") type visible from the front of the
collection box.
   L.   Collection boxes shall contain the following contact information in two
inch (2") type visible from the front of the box: the name, address, e-mail and
phone number of the owner of the collection box.
   M.   Collection boxes shall be maintained in good condition and appearance
with no structural damage, holes or visible rust and shall be free of graffiti.
All boxes shall be serviced regularly so as to prevent overflow of collections
or the accumulation of junk, debris or other material.
§ 3-10C-5 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee who receives three (3) or more violations of the provisions of
Article will have their license revoked. Any licensee whose license has been
revoked may request a hearing before the License Review Commission to appeal
any such revocation.
§ 3-10C-6 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
Article shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day on which a violation
occurs or continues to exist. In addition, any licensee whose license has been
revoked or any person who places a collection box without a license will be
required to remove the collection box within forty-eight (48) hours after
receiving notice to remove same. The Village may cause the removal of any box
remaining after said forty-eight (48) hour period. In this event, the property
owner wherein the collection box is located shall be subject to a removal fee
of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The licensee and the property
owner on whose property the collection box is placed are jointly and severally
liable for adhering to the provisions of this Article and any fees or penalties
associated therewith.
CHAPTER 11: HOTELS AND EXTENDED STAY HOTELS
Section
   
3-11-1   Definitions
   
3-11-2   License Required
   
3-11-3   Application for License
   
3-11-4   Building and Premises Requirements
   
3-11-5   Guest Register
   
3-11-6   Inspections
   
3-11-7   Prohibited to Persons under Twenty-One
   
3-11-8   Maximum Stay Length
   
3-11-9   Improper Sleeping Facilities
   
3-11-10   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-2-6 of this Title
§ 3-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   HOTEL: An establishment that provides guests overnight accommodations that
do not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days, in exchange for monetary
compensation. Commercial areas, meeting areas, dining areas and other guest
facilities that are open to both patrons and the general public may be
included. Individual guest rooms may include limited cooking facilities, such
as a microwave or minifridge, but not a full kitchen. Guest rooms to hotels, as
defined in this Ordinance, shall be accessed from interior corridors.
   HOTEL, EXTENDED STAY: An establishment that provides guests with overnight
accommodations for monetary compensation that allows occupancy for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days with the following:
      1.   Commercial areas, meeting areas, dining areas and other guest
facilities that are open to both patrons and the general public may be
included;
      2.   Twenty-four (24) hour reception and/or registration service is
provided;
      3.   Daily housekeeping services are available; and
      4.   Individual guest rooms contain a full kitchen, including a
refrigerator, stove top, kitchen sink, microwave oven and all related cooking
utensils and dishes.
      Guest rooms to extended stay hotels, as defined in this Ordinance, shall
be accessed from interior corridors.
§ 3-11-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate,
maintain or manage a hotel or extended stay hotel without first having obtained
a license.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Section
3-1-6 of this Title
§ 3-11-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license under this Chapter shall be made in conformity
with the general requirements of this Code relating to applications for
licenses. (See Section
3-1-3 of this Title.) Such application shall specify the number of rooms for
rent to furnished by the licensee.
§ 3-11-4 BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   All premises used for public sleeping accommodations shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times.
   B.   Each public sleeping unit shall have a complete bathroom including
flush toilet, sink, bath or shower.
   C.   Floors of bathrooms shall be constructed of concrete, tile or of
similar materials which are impervious to water and shall be pitched to a floor
drain.
   D.   Each bathroom shall be provided with an adequate supply of hot and cold
running water, soap, individual or paper towels and toilet paper at all times.
   E.   Each public sleeping unit containing a kitchen shall be provided with a
kitchen sink constructed of nonabsorbent material and supplied at all times
with hot and cold running water.
§ 3-11-5 GUEST REGISTER.
   Each proprietor of a hotel or extended stay hotel shall keep or cause to be
kept a register of guests indicating the name and address of each guest, the
dates of entrance and departure and the make and license number of each
vehicle.
§ 3-11-6 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Community Development Department to
make, or cause to be made, such inspections as may be necessary to ensure
Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and all other ordinances
relating thereto.
§ 3-11-7 PROHIBITED TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to rent, lease or sign a contract for
the use of a hotel or extended stay hotel to any individual under the age of
twenty-one (21).
§ 3-11-8 MAXIMUM STAY LENGTH.
   A.   No hotel located within the Village shall allow any person to occupy
such facility for more than twenty-nine (29) consecutive days unless otherwise
permitted in this Section. No guest residing for more than twenty-nine (29)
consecutive days shall begin a new rental agreement with the hotel without at
least a ten (10) day vacancy between stays.
   B.   No hotel located within the Village shall allow any person to occupy
such hotel as their permanent residence, and/or to utilize the hotel as their
mailing address.
   C.   Notwithstanding Subsections
3-11-8A and
3-11-8B of this Section, a stay in excess of twenty-nine (29) consecutive days,
or utilizing the hotel as a mailing address by a guest may occur in the
following situations:
      1.   When an insurance company or federal, state or local agency has
provided documentation that a hotel guest has been displaced from their home by
natural disaster or fire;
§ 3-11-9 IMPROPER SLEEPING FACILITIES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit public sleeping
occupancy in any facility not licensed therefor and which does not meet the
health and safety requirements of Section
3-11-4 of this Chapter or which facility is in a zoned district which does not
permit public sleeping facilities.
§ 3-11-10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than
$750.00 for each offense as well as having the license subject to being
suspended or revoked by the License Review Commission as a result of repeated
violations of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 12: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
3-12-0   Purpose
   
3-12-1   Definitions
   
3-12-2   License Required
   
3-12-3   Application for Alarm License
   
3-12-4   License Fee
   
3-12-5   Issuance of License
   
3-12-6   Term of License
   
3-12-7   License to Be Posted
   
3-12-8   Duties of the Alarm User
   
3-12-9   Duties of the Alarm Ordinance Control Clerk
   
3-12-10   Fines
   
3-12-11   Revocation Process
   
3-12-12   Reinstatement
   
3-12-13   Grace Period
   
3-12-14   Automatic Dialing Telephone Alarms Prohibited
   
3-12-15   Confidentiality
   
3-12-16   Government Immunity
   
3-12-17   Penalties
§ 3-12-0 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to encourage alarm users and alarm companies
to properly use and maintain the operational effectiveness and proper
utilization of alarm systems and to reduce or eliminate false alarms which may
unduly divert law enforcement from responding to criminal activity.
   This Chapter governs systems intended to summon law enforcement response,
and requires registration, establishes fees, provides for penalties for
violations, establishes a system of administration and sets conditions for
suspension or loss of registration.
§ 3-12-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ALARM COMPANY: The business by an individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving, installing or monitoring an alarm system in an alarm site.
   ALARM DISPATCH REQUEST: A notification to a law enforcement agency that an
alarm, either manual or automatic has been activated at a particular alarm
site.
   ALARM LICENSE: Permit granted by the Village to an alarm user for an alarm
system to be operated, maintained and located at an alarm site.
   ALARM SITE: A single fixed premises or location served by an alarm system or
systems. Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-tenant
building or complex, shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of any actual or attempted burglary or robbery to
which the police are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
organization or other entity who (which) uses or is in control of a premises
where an alarm system is located, operated and maintained.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING TELEPHONE ALARM: Any electrical, electronic, mechanical or
other device capable of being programmed to send a prerecorded voice message,
when activated, over a telephone line, radio or other communication system,
directly to a law enforcement agency or public emergency communication/dispatch
center.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The Village of Elk Grove Village Chief of Police or their
designee.
   FALSE ALARM: Activation or transmission of any alarm signal caused by human
error, mechanical or electronic malfunction, negligence of the alarm user or
alarm user’s employee, whether or not the exact cause of the alarm activation
is determined, or any other activation or transmission of any alarm signal
where no actual or attempted burglary or robbery exists. Severe weather, power
outages, transmission line malfunctions, acts of God, malicious acts of persons
not under the control of the alarm user or any other cause clearly beyond the
control of the alarm user will be considered in determining if an alarm
activation was false and whether or not any occurrence, fine, warning or other
punitive action will be taken against the alarm user as provided for by this
Chapter.
   ORDINANCE CONTROL CLERK: A person or persons designated by the Chief of
Police to administer, control and review false alarm reduction efforts.
   PERSON: A natural individual, corporation, partnership, association,
organization or similar entity.
   TAKEOVER: The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over
control of an existing alarm system, which was previously controlled by another
alarm user.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village, Illinois.
§ 3-12-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No alarm user shall operate, or cause to be operated, an alarm system at its
alarm site without a valid alarm license issued by the Village. A separate
alarm license is required for each alarm site. The Village will not respond to
any alarm site which is not licensed.
§ 3-12-3 APPLICATION FOR ALARM LICENSE.
   A.   The initial annual license fee and completed application form must be
submitted to the Village Finance Department within ten (10) days after the
alarm installation or alarm takeover. The application shall be forwarded to the
Ordinance Control Clerk.
   B.   Upon receipt of a completed application form and proof that the alarm
license fee is paid, the Ordinance Control Clerk shall register the applicant
unless the applicant:
      1.   Failed to pay a fine/fines that are past due ninety (90) days from
the original invoice date;
      2.   Had an alarm license for the alarm site revoked;
      3.   Is in the process of a hearing before the False Alarm Hearing Board.
   C.   Incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant. No license
shall be issued until a completed application is received.
   D.   An alarm license cannot be transferred to another alarm user or alarm
site.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any alarm user to fail or refuse to amend its
alarm system license application within ten (10) days after any of the
information required and contained therein is or becomes outdated and
inaccurate.
   F.   All fees and collections owed by an alarm user must be paid before a
license may be issued or renewed.
   G.   Any applications not accepted pursuant to Subsections C and F of this
Section will be returned to the applicant.
§ 3-12-4 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for an alarm user’s license shall be as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-12-5 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The Police Department shall issue licenses for alarm users within fifteen
(15) days after completed applications are filed.
§ 3-12-6 TERM OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall commence on January 1 and expire on December 31 of each
year. When an applicant of a new business, alarm user, alarm site or activity
requires a license after the expiration of six (6) months (July 1) of the
current license year, the license fee shall be fifty percent (50%) of the
annual fee as set forth in Section
3-12-4 of this Chapter.
§ 3-12-7 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   No alarm system shall be installed or maintained unless the alarm user of
such alarm system shall post or cause to be posted at or near the location
where such alarm system can be deactivated a notice containing the name,
address and telephone number of the person or entity responsible for the
maintenance and repair of such alarm system or entity.
§ 3-12-8 DUTIES OF THE ALARM USER.
   A.   An alarm user shall:
      1.   Maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
eliminate or minimize false alarms; and
      2.   Make every reasonable effort to respond or cause a representative to
respond to the alarm system’s location within thirty (30) minutes when notified
by the Municipality to deactivate a malfunctioning alarm system, to provide
access to the premises or to provide alternative security for the premises; and
      3.   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report;
      4.   Not use automatic voice dialers;
      5.   Train all authorized personnel on the operation of the system so as
to not cause, through human error, any false alarm transmission.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the alarm user to cause or permit an alarm
system for which an alarm license has been issued pursuant to this Chapter to
sound in excess of one hour.
§ 3-12-9 DUTIES OF THE ALARM ORDINANCE CONTROL CLERK.
   A.   The Alarm Ordinance Control Clerk, who shall be the Chief of Police or
their designee, will notify the alarm user of a false alarm. The notice shall
include the following information:
      1.   The date and time of law enforcement response to the false alarm;
      2.   Each instance wherein the police have recorded a false alarm and in
the case of the third, fifth, tenth, fifteenth and twentieth recorded false
alarms in any one licensed year, shall further notify the licensee that further
false alarms will result in the imposition of additional charges as set forth
herein;
      3.   A statement urging the alarm user to ensure that the alarm system is
properly operated, inspected and serviced in order to avoid false alarms and
resulting fines and that all authorized personnel are properly trained in its
operation.
   B.   If there is reason to believe that an alarm system is not being used or
maintained in a manner that ensures proper operation and suppresses false
alarms, the Alarm Ordinance Control Clerk may require a conference with an
alarm user and the alarm company responsible for the repair of the alarm system
to review the circumstances of each false alarm.
§ 3-12-10 FINES.
   A.   Additional Charges: Any alarm site which has more than three (3) false
alarms within a licensed year shall subject the alarm user licensee to
additional charges as follows:
 
Number of False Alarms per Licensed Year Fines per False Alarm
1 through 3                              $0.00
4 and 5                                  $100.00
6 through 10                             $150.00
11 through 15                            $200.00
16 through 20                            $250.00
Over 20                                  $350.00
 
   The above charges shall be paid to the Village within thirty (30) days from
the invoice date requesting said additional charges.
   B.   Past Due, Revocation: The Chief of Police may revoke an alarm user’s
license for past due fines that exceed ninety (90) days from issue date.
   C.   Show Cause: Each licensee shall have the opportunity within ten (10)
days after the receipt of such notice to submit a report to or meet with the
Chief of Police or their designated agent for the purpose of showing cause as
to whether circumstances exist so as to warrant a voiding of the false alarm
recordation.
§ 3-12-11 REVOCATION PROCESS.
   A.   An alarm user may have their license revoked due to nonpayment of alarm
fines (pursuant to Subsection
3-12-10B of this Chapter). No police response shall be provided to an alarm
site whose license has been revoked.
   B.   The Chief of Police shall give notice by certified mail to the alarm
user that their alarm user’s license has been revoked. If, upon receipt of said
notice, the alarm user requests to be reinstated, the alarm user must satisfy
the cause for revocation (pay all past due fines). Should the Chief of Police
deny reinstatement, the alarm user may appeal by requesting a hearing before
the False Alarm Hearing Board.
   C.   The hearing shall be before a False Alarm Hearing Board established by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and the Chief of Police and the alarm user
shall have the right to present written and oral evidence subject to the right
of cross-examination.
   D.   Filing of a request for appeal shall stay the action by the Chief of
Police. If a request for appeal is not made within a twenty (20) day period,
the action of the Chief is final.
   E.   If a hearing is requested, written notice of the time and place of the
hearing shall be served upon the alarm user by the Chief of Police or their
designated agent by certified mail at least ten (10) days prior to the date set
for the hearing, which date shall not be more than twenty-one (21) nor less
than ten (10) days after the filing of the request for the hearing.
   F.   The False Alarm Hearing Board shall conduct a formal hearing and
consider the evidence. The Board shall make its decision on the basis of a
preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing. The Board must render a
written decision within thirty (30) days after the request for an appeal
hearing is filed. The Board shall affirm, reverse or modify the action of the
Chief. The decision of the Board is final as to the administrative remedies
with the Village.
§ 3-12-12 REINSTATEMENT.
   An alarm user whose alarm license has been revoked, may request the Chief of
Police to reinstate their alarm license upon payment or otherwise resolving all
past due fines, and shall, in addition, pay a reinstatement fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
§ 3-12-13 GRACE PERIOD.
   Whenever a new alarm system is installed, the licensee shall be given thirty
(30) days from the date of the installation of such alarm system within which
no alarm from the premises shall be deemed to be a false alarm.
§ 3-12-14 AUTOMATIC DIALING TELEPHONE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   Any automatic dialing telephone alarm is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
No person shall install or cause to be installed or maintain any automatic
telephone alarm in the Village. Any such automatic telephone alarm shall be
subject to abatement as a nuisance, and shall be deemed a violation of this
Chapter.
§ 3-12-15 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Information contained in the alarm user’s application shall be held in
confidence by all employees or representatives of the Village and by any third-
party administrator or employees of a third-party administrator with access to
such information.
§ 3-12-16 GOVERNMENT IMMUNITY.
   Registration of an alarm system is not intended to, nor will it, create a
contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied, of response. Any and
all liability and consequential damage resulting from the failure to respond to
a notification alarm dispatch request is hereby disclaimed and governmental
immunity as provided by law is retained. By registering an alarm system, the
alarm user acknowledges that police response may be based on factors such as:
availability of police units, priority of calls, weather conditions, traffic
conditions, emergency conditions and staffing levels.
§ 3-12-17 PENALTIES.
   In addition to any fees or fines established herein, any person convicted of
a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
CHAPTER 13: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE, PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE AND
CONSUMER PROTECTION
Section
   
3-13-1   Definitions
   
3-13-2   Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
   
3-13-3   PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
   
3-13-4   Applicable Principles
   
3-13-5   No Impact on Other Taxes Due from Holder
   
3-13-6   Audits of Cable/Video Service Provider
   
3-13-7   Late Fees/Payments
   
3-13-8   Cable and Video Customer Protection Law
§ 3-13-1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC Section 522(6).
   COMMISSION: The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the Village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges;
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and repair
charges;
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments;
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
Village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
Village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to Subsection A9 of this
definition;
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications, the
portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business;
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
   
      2.   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the amount
of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to
the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is attributable to cable
service or video service;
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser’s
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the Village and pay the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/
21-801(b) with respect to the service;
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers;
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
   PEG: Public, education and governmental.
   PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this Chapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801(d) by the holder to the Village for the service areas within its
territorial jurisdiction.
   SERVICE: The provision of “cable service” or “video service” to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this Chapter and 220 ILCS 5/21-
801 by the holder to a Village for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wire line facilities located at least in part in the public
right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC Section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services offered
over the public internet.
§ 3-13-2 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the Village.
   B.   Amount of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder’s gross revenues.
   C.   Notice to the Village: The holder shall notify the Village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the Village.
   D.   Holder’s Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the Village. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this Chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this Chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
Village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty-five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the Village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit for Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under Subsection B of this Section.
§ 3-13-3 PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED.
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the Village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to Subsection
3-13-2B of this Chapter.
   B.   Amount of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder’s gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the Village
or its designee for PEG access support in the Village.
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the Village
or to the entity designated by the Village to manage PEG access. The holder’s
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in Subsection
3-13-2D of this Chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty-five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit for Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) shall pay, at
the time they would have been due, all monetary payments for PEG access that
would have been due during the remaining term of the agreement had it not been
terminated pursuant to that Section. All payments made by an incumbent cable
operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be credited against the fees
that that operator owes under Subsection B of this Section.
§ 3-13-4 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this Chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
§ 3-13-5 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the Village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the Village’s
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
§ 3-13-6 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   A.   Audit Requirement: The Village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the Village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
Village. If all local franchises between the Village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the Village
pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the Village’s submission of an invoice for
the sum.
§ 3-13-7 LATE FEES/PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this Village pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
§ 3-13-8 CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW.
   A.   Customer Service and Privacy Protection Law:
      1.   Adoption: The Customer Service and Privacy Protection regulations,
being 220 ILCS 5/22-501, are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to
the cable or video providers offering services within the Village’s boundaries.
      2.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this Section shall be
incorporated into this Section by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the Municipality’s boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this Section by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the Village.
   B.   Enforcement: The Village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent
to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards of the
cable and video protection law, being 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq., with respect
to complaints received from residents within the Village.
   C.   Penalties: The Village, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material
breach per customer.
      1.   “Material breach” means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
      2.   The Village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
      3.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in Subsection C2 of this
Section.
   D.   Customer Credits: The Village hereby adopts the schedule of customer
credits for violations. Those credits shall be as provided for in the
provisions of 220 ILCS 5/22-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit.
CHAPTER 14: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
3-14-1   Definitions
   
3-14-2   License Required
   
3-14-3   Business License and Filing Fee
   
3-14-4   License Application
   
3-14-5   Issuance of License
   
3-14-6   Revocation or Suspension of License
   
3-14-7   Necessary Facilities
   
3-14-8   Operating Requirements
   
3-14-9   Inspection
   
3-14-10   Employment Age Restrictions
   
3-14-11   License Fees; Term; Application Fee
   
3-14-12   Exemptions
   
3-14-13   Public Nuisance
   
3-14-14   Penalty
§ 3-14-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual who has been issued a massage
therapist license by the State of Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulations, including the Massage Therapy Practice Act, 225 ILCS
57/1 et seq.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person, including a certified massage therapist and massage
therapist in training, who renders any service in connection with the operation
of a massage business and receives compensation from the operator of the
business or patrons.
   LICENSE REVIEW COMMISSION: The License Review Commission shall consist of
the Mayor as the License Review Commissioner and two (2) Trustees appointed by
the Mayor as Commission members. It shall be the duty of the Commission members
to assist the License Review Commissioner in the exercise of the powers and the
performance of the duties of the License Review Commissioner. Final authority
for decisions concerning the license shall remain exclusively with the License
Review Commissioner.
   LICENSEE: The operator of a massage establishment.
   MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
soft parts of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions,
ointments or other preparations.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed place of business
where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or carries on or
permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities mentioned in this
Chapter. A massage establishment must be an ancillary use to a hotel, a hair
salon/spa, a health club or a medical facility. As an ancillary use to a hotel,
there must be a full spa, sized and equipped as approved by the Department of
Community Development.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST IN TRAINING: An individual who is actively enrolled and
who has completed a minimum of two hundred fifty (250) hours of courses in the
field of massage therapy in an educational institution accredited by the
Illinois State Board of Education, and is working under the direct supervision
of a licensed certified massage therapist.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
   SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: Genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any
person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
§ 3-14-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on or
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the Village, the operating of a “massage establishment” as herein defined,
without first having obtained a business license for a massage establishment.
§ 3-14-3 BUSINESS LICENSE AND FILING FEE.
   A.   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application in duplicate with the Finance
Department upon a form provided by said Finance Department and pay a
nonrefundable application fee, plus the annual business license fee for a
massage establishment.
   B.   The Finance Department shall refer copies of such application to the
Department of Community Development, the Police Department and the Fire
Department. The appropriate departments shall inspect the premises proposed to
be operated as a massage establishment, make an investigation of the
application and make written recommendations to the Finance Department
concerning compliance with Village codes and Federal and State law.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the recommendation of the
aforesaid departments, the Finance Department shall notify the applicant that
their application is granted, denied or held for further review. The period of
such additional review shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days unless
otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the conclusion of such additional
review, the Finance Department shall advise the applicant in writing whether
the application is granted or denied.
   D.   Whenever an application is denied or held for further review, the
Finance Department shall advise the applicant of the reasons for such action.
An application may be denied by the Finance Department if he/she finds:
      1.   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not have complied with the applicable federal, state and local laws
including, but not limited to, the Building, Fire, Health and Zoning Codes of
the Village; or
      2.   That the applicant and/or any other person who will be directly
engaged in the management and operation of a massage establishment has been
convicted within the previous ten (10) years of:
         a.   A felony;
         b.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children; or
         c.   Soliciting for a prostitute, pimping, prostitution or similar
misdemeanor.
   E.   The failure or refusal of the applicant to promptly give any
information relevant to the investigation of the application, or their refusal
or failure to appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under
oath regarding said application, or their refusal to submit to or cooperate
with any inspection required by this Chapter shall constitute an admission by
the applicant that he/she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the Finance Department.
§ 3-14-4 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered, the proposed
place of business and facilities therefor, the proposed number of employees,
hours of operation and other relevant matters to the operation of the business.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a license, including
any partner of a partnership applicant, and any officer or director of a
corporate applicant and any stockholder holding more than ten percent (10%) of
the stock of a corporate applicant, shall furnish the following information:
      1.   Name and address;
      2.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age;
      3.   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years;
      4.   Date of birth;
      5.   Social security number;
      6.   Driver’s license number;
      7.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application;
      8.   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another city or state
under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or revocation;
      9.   All criminal or Village ordinance violation convictions, and
forfeiture of bond, except minor traffic violations;
      10.   The fingerprints and photograph of applicant which shall be taken
at the Police Department so that the Police Department may conduct a criminal
record search of the applicant;
      11.   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of its articles of
incorporation and/or permission to do business in Illinois shall be attached;
and
      12.   The applicant’s tax identification number.
   C.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall
state the names of the individuals who have been issued massage therapist
licenses by the State of Illinois Department of Financial and Professional
Regulations and who will be performing massage therapy on the premises. No
massage establishment license shall issue to any establishment whose therapists
are not licensed with the State of Illinois.
§ 3-14-5 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of the recommendations of the departments referred to in this
Chapter, the Finance Department shall issue a business license to maintain a
massage establishment.
§ 3-14-6 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Any license for a massage establishment may be suspended by the Village
Manager or their designee for up to thirty (30) days where the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this Chapter or if any employee of the
licensed establishment is engaged in conduct at the establishment which
violates any provision of this Chapter or any applicable State law. Such
license may also be suspended where any applicant has made a false statement on
an application for a license under this Chapter or in any case where the
licensee refused to permit any duly authorized police officer or inspector of
the Village to inspect the premises or the operations therein. Such license may
also be suspended by the Village Manager or their designee, upon the
recommendation of the Director of Community Development, that such business is
being managed, conducted or maintained without regard for the public health or
health of patrons or customers or without due regard to proper sanitation or
hygiene.
   The Village Manager or their designee may include in their order of
suspension a request that a hearing be held before the License Review
Commissioner for the purpose of considering the revocation of the license.
Should the notice of suspension include a request for revocation, a hearing
date before the Commission shall be set by the Commissioner, which hearing
shall be held no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the notice of
suspension. The license holder may request a hearing, in writing, before the
License Review Commission to appeal any order of suspension. Upon receipt by
the Commission of a request for a hearing, the order of suspension shall be
stayed.
   The License Review Commission shall conduct the requested hearing and hear
all relevant evidence relating to the notice of suspension and/or request for
revocation. The License Review Commissioner shall render a written decision
within five (5) days rescinding the suspension, affirming the suspension,
revoking the license or such other findings and order as the Commissioner deems
appropriate including a reduction or increase in the amount of days suspended
and an assessment of fees.
§ 3-14-7 NECESSARY FACILITIES.
   A.   No massage establishment shall be issued a license nor be operated,
established or maintained in the Village unless an inspection by the Director
of Community Development and/or other Village inspections reveal that the
establishment complies with each of the following minimum requirements.
      1.   Construction of room used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the codes of the Village.
      2.   Massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas and
floors, if present as required by state law or local code or otherwise, shall
have surfaces which may be readily disinfected.
      3.   In the event a bathing, dressing and locker facility shall be
provided for the patrons to be served at any given time, then, and in that
event, separate bathing, dressing and locker facilities shall be provided for
the male and the female patrons.
      4.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use of each patron.
      5.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage area.
      6.   Toilet facilities for patrons and employees shall be installed,
where required, in accordance with the current Illinois Plumbing Code.
      7.   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
      8.   The premises shall be equipped with a service sink for custodial
services; and
      9.   A stationary or portable professional massage table or chair with
appropriate headrest.
§ 3-14-8 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted or provided in
brochures in the reception area in a location available to all prospective
customers.
   C.   All employees, including certified massage therapists and massage
therapists in training, shall be clean and fully covered in clean clothing from
a point not to exceed four inches (4") above the center of the kneecap to the
base of the neck by opaque material, excluding the arms and hands.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   The sexual or genital area of patrons must be covered by sheets, cloths
or undergarments when in the presence of an employee or certified massage
therapist and massage therapist in training.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, in a massage
establishment to place their hand upon, or to touch with any part of his/her
body, to fondle in any manner or to massage a sexual or genital area of any
other person.
   G.   No certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training,
employee or operator shall perform, offer or agree to perform any act which
would require the touching of a patron’s genital area.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms and
all other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or vapor
cabinets, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and showers shall be
thoroughly cleaned. When carpeting is used on the floors, it shall be kept dry.
   I.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean containers or cabinets and shall be dispensed
in unit doses so that said bulk containers are not contaminated between
clients.
   J.   Eating and/or drinking in the massage work area shall not be permitted.
Animals, except for seeing eye dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage work
area.
   K.   No certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training shall
administer a massage to a patron exhibiting any skin fungus, skin infection,
skin inflammation or skin eruption unless a physician duly licensed by the
state certifies in writing that such person may be safely massaged, prescribing
the conditions thereof.
   L.   Each certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training shall
wash their hands in hot running water, using a proper soap disinfectant before
administering a massage to each patron.
   M.   Massage may be practiced only for the purposes of physical fitness,
relaxation or medical therapy. The practice of massage for any other purpose is
prohibited.
   N.   The hours of operation for massage establishments shall be limited to
between six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
   O.   The doors to the individual massage rooms shall not be equipped with
any locking device and shall not be blocked or obstructed from either side.
   P.   All massages performed on the premises must be given by a certified
massage therapist or massage therapist in training who has first obtained a
license issued by the State of Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulations.
   Q.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or other person
in charge of any massage establishment to employ for the purpose of or allow
any employee to perform any act of massage unless that person or employee is a
certified massage therapist or massage therapist in training duly issued a
license issued by the State of Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation.
§ 3-14-9 INSPECTION.
   The Director of Community Development, or their authorized designee, shall
from time to time, make an inspection of each massage establishment granted a
license under the provisions of this Chapter for the purposes of determining
that the provisions of this Chapter are complied with. Such inspections shall
be made at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful
for any licensee to fail to allow such inspector access to the premises or to
hinder such inspector in any manner.
§ 3-14-10 EMPLOYMENT AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or other person in
charge of any massage establishment to employ any person who is not at least
eighteen (18) years of age.
§ 3-14-11 LICENSE FEES; TERM; APPLICATION FEE.
   A.   Fees: The annual license fee for a massage establishment license shall
be as established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Term: All licenses shall commence on August 1 and expire on July 31 of
each year.
   C.   Initial Application Fee: Every initial applicant for a license to
operate a massage establishment shall file an application with the Finance
Department upon a form provided by the Village and pay a nonrefundable
application fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   If the application is approved, the applicant shall be so notified and the
annual license fee for the first year shall be submitted to the Village prior
to the issuance of the license.
§ 3-14-12 EXEMPTIONS.
   This Chapter shall not apply to other units of government, hospitals,
nursing homes, sanitaria or persons holding an unrevoked certificate to
practice the healing arts under the laws of the state or persons working under
the direction of any such persons or in any such establishments; nor shall this
Chapter apply to massages of the face, head, neck or shoulders given by barbers
or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business
and holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration issued by
the state. The exemption provided by this Section for barbers and
cosmetologists shall only apply where massages are offered as an adjunct to,
and not as the primary business practice of, said barbers’ or cosmetologists’
business with the Village.
§ 3-14-13 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building used as a massage establishment in violation of this Chapter
with the intentional knowing, reckless or negligent permission of the owner
thereof; or the agent of the owner managing the building, together with all
fixtures and other property used in violation of this Chapter are hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
§ 3-14-14 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation,
and a separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues to exist. In addition to any fine, the
Village may proceed to suspend or revoke the license as provided in Section
3-14-6 of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 15: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS/CRIME FREE HOUSING
Section
   
3-15-1   Definitions
   
3-15-2   License Required
   
3-15-3   Application
   
3-15-4   Issuance of License
   
3-15-5   Regulations
   
3-15-6   Crime Free Rental Housing Program
   
3-15-7   Inspections
   
3-15-8   Rental License Fees
   
3-15-9   Short-term Residential Rentals Prohibited
   
3-15-10   Enforcement/Penalties
§ 3-15-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
   AGENT: A person authorized to act for and under the direction of another
person when dealing with third parties.
   CODE OFFICIAL: The Director of Community Development who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this Chapter, or any duly authorized
representative.
   COMMON AREA: Common areas shall include, but are not limited to, all
hallways, stairways, lobbies, utility rooms, laundry rooms, storage rooms,
recreation rooms, grounds, refuse areas, parking areas, building extensions,
signs and other areas designed for common use by dwelling unit occupants. A
common area shall be counted as a single unit in the calculation of the average
number of violations per dwelling unit.
   CONDOMINIUM: Any dwelling unit under individual ownership in a multi-unit
structure as provided in the condominium property act of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes of the State of Illinois.
   CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION: Shall mean any organization or association which
governs the operation of common areas or services for two (2) or more
condominiums.
   CRIME FREE HOUSING COORDINATOR: The Chief of Police, or their designee, who
is charged with the administration and enforcement of the crime free provision
of this Chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any building or portion thereof that contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating and sanitation.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS: Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”,
“rooming units”, “premises” or “structure” are used in this Chapter, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular; the
masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit located in any building or
portion thereof under common ownership, a condominium, an apartment, townhome
or other building with multiple dwellings.
   OWNER/PROPERTY OWNER: Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with
others, shall have legal title to any premises, dwelling, dwelling unit or
commercial property with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or
shall have charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner or agent of owner, or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian
of the estate of owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this Chapter and of rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto to the same extent as if they were the
owner.
   RENT: The consideration paid by a tenant to the owner of a rental dwelling
unit for the exclusive use by the tenant of part or all of the dwelling unit.
The consideration is not limited to cash.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT: A building or dwelling unit occupied and leased by a
tenant, or occupied by an individual who is not the property owner.
   SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS: A Residential Structure, including any
portion of or amenity on the property, offered for rent for a period which does
not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days. The term “Short-Term Residential
Rental” shall not include hotels or motels.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RENTAL DWELLING: Any building which contains separate living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation
that are located within the Village’s designated R-1, R-2 or R-3 zoning
districts.
   TENANT: Any adult person granted use of a rental dwelling unit pursuant to a
lease with the owner of the rental dwelling unit and shall include any person
or family member occupying a rental dwelling unit with or without a lease and
irrespective of whether any consideration is paid or required.
   TOWNHOUSE ASSOCIATION: Any organization or association which governs the
operation of common areas of two (2) or more townhouses.
§ 3-15-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent, lease or operate a
multi-family dwelling unit or single-family rental dwelling to a tenant within
the Village without first having obtained a license as herein provided.
§ 3-15-3 APPLICATION.
   An application for a license under this Chapter shall be filed with the
Department of Finance on a form provided by said department. The application
shall include an annual license fee and shall further include, without
limitation, the following information:
   A.   Address of property;
   B.   Property owner’s name plus names of any agents or property managers as
well as current address and telephone numbers of all of the above;
   C.   Name and date of birth of all tenants including all adult family
members or other adult parties living in the rental unit other than the tenant
signing the lease. If tenant information is not available or unknown at the
time of the initial application, then the information shall be submitted when
the final lease is executed and also on every renewal application.
§ 3-15-4 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   A.   No license shall be issued unless the unit or units in connection with
which the license is sought, is found after inspection, to meet all applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations with respect thereto. Rental units which
change ownership will be required to be inspected before a new license can be
issued, which inspection must indicate that the unit or units are still in
compliance as required.
   B.   No operating license shall be issued or renewed unless the completed
application form for each building or unit, as the case may be, is accompanied
by payment of the appropriate nonrefundable license fee and reinspection fee
and/or late fees as applicable. In addition, no license shall be issued to any
property owner or for any building which has any outstanding financial
obligations with the Village until all accounts have been made current.
   C.   No operating license shall be issued or renewed for a nonresident or
out of state applicant unless such applicant designates in writing the name of
their agent for the receipt of service or notice of violation of any provision
of this Chapter and for service of process pursuant to this Chapter.
   D.   All licenses shall commence on January 1 and expire on December 31 of
each year. All license fees shall be due and payable before January 1 of each
year. The license shall be for a one (1) year period, provided that any rental
dwelling that changes ownership within any licensing year will require the new
owner to apply for a new license as the license is not transferrable.
   When an applicant for a new rental dwelling unit requires a license after
expiration of six (6) months (June 1) of the current license year, the license
fee shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual fee as set forth in Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter. When an applicant of a new rental dwelling unit requires
a license after expiration of ten (10) months (June 1) of the current license
year, the licensee shall pay the annual fee as set forth in Section
3-1-6 of this Chapter, and the license shall be set to expire at the end of the
following licensing year. Any licensee who ceases to do business during the
first four (4) months of any license year, shall, upon request made no later
than the end of said licensing year, receive a refund of fifty percent (50%) of
the license fee paid for that license year.
   No new license shall be issued unless the dwelling unit or units involved
are found after inspection to meet all applicable requirements, rules and
regulations of this Chapter and such other ordinances and regulations
pertaining to rental dwelling units.
   E.   A conditional license may be granted for a term not exceeding six (6)
months to those rental dwellings which cannot be fully licensed due to special
circumstances (e.g., weather conditions, unavailability of required materials
and/or services and other circumstances as approved by the Code Official). All
requests for a conditional license must be approved by the Code Official. The
application for a conditional license shall be accompanied by the full
nonrefundable license fee and any rental dwelling license applicant which has
not been issued a full license within the six (6) month period shall be deemed
to have their application denied.
§ 3-15-5 REGULATIONS.
   A.   Each license must be displayed in a prominent or conspicuous place
within the common ways of the rental dwelling.
   B.   Every owner, operator or agent of a licensed multiple dwelling facility
shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate record of all repairs, alterations
and equipment changes related to the provisions of this Chapter or to any rules
or regulations pertaining thereto and of all corrections made as a result of
inspections by the Code Official or their inspector. Such record shall be made
available to the Code Official at their request and may be used in
administrative or judicial proceedings if required or applicable.
   C.   Whenever, upon inspection, the Code Official finds that conditions or
practices exist which are in violation of the provisions of this Chapter or of
any applicable rules or regulations pursuant thereto, they shall serve the
owner, operator or agent as the case may be with notice of such violation or
violations. If the cited violations are not corrected within the time period
indicated in the notice, the license may be suspended as provided herein.
   D.   The licensee must be in compliance with all applicable codes,
regulations and ordinances of the Village, including all national or
international codes adopted by the Village which relate to any particular
dwelling unit or multiple dwelling building or other rental dwelling.
§ 3-15-6 CRIME FREE RENTAL HOUSING PROGRAM.
   A.   Seminar Required: Any owner, operator, property manager or agent of
property which is being rented out for residential purposes shall attend and
complete a Village of Elk Grove Crime Free Housing Program seminar (seminar),
prior to obtaining or being issued a license.
   B.   Additional Seminar: Any owner, operator, property manager or agent
shall attend an additional seminar prior to the third year anniversary of the
issuance of the first license, and any additional seminars if required by the
Crime Free Housing Coordinator as a result of code violations or existing
conditions or circumstances not conducive with the intent and purpose of this
Chapter. Thereafter, attendance at additional seminar shall be excused unless
mandated by the Code Official for reasons as above set forth.
   C.   Attendance: The Crime Free Housing Coordinator shall provide the
Finance Director and the Director of Community Development with a list of
owners, operators, property managers or agents who have successfully completed
the seminar, and shall include the date of completion and verification that
said individual and the building which they represent are eligible to obtain or
renew an operating license.
   D.   Crime Free Lease Addendum: Any owner, agent or designee of residential
rental property is required to utilize a crime free lease addendum or have a
clause in the lease similar to a crime free lease addendum for any leases
executed. Samples of the crime free lease addendum shall be provided with the
application form. The Crime Free Housing Coordinator shall review any clauses
within actual leases with the Village’s legal department to determine if the
clause is similar to the crime free lease addendum. The clause is to make
criminal activity (not limited to violent criminal activity or drug related
criminal activity engaged by, facilitated by or permitted by the renter, member
of the household, guest or other party under the control of the renter) a lease
violation. The landlord shall have authority under that clause to initiate an
eviction proceeding as specified in the Illinois Compiled Statutes forcible
entry and detainer statutes, including 735 ILCS 5/9-101 et seq. Proof of
criminal violation shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   E.   Nuisance Residential Rental Property: It is hereby declared a nuisance
and to be declared against the health, peace and comfort of the Village for any
property owner, agent or manager to allow or permit the following:
      1.   Rental of a residential unit or a residential building within an
apartment community or governed by a homeowners’ association to a tenant who
allows any of the following offenses relating to the tenant, member of the
tenant’s household, guest or other party under control of the tenant, to occur:
murder, kidnapping, aggravated kidnapping, prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, pandering, obscenity, child pornography, harmful materials, sale
of obscene publication, criminal housing management, possession of explosives,
unlawful use of weapons, sale of firearms, gambling, keeping a gambling place,
concealing a fugitive, violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act,
being 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.; violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.; or commission of any two (2) or more of any other
crimes under the State of Illinois or under the federal government not
specifically listed above;
      2.   Rental of a residential unit, or residential building within an
apartment community or governed by a homeowners’ association to a tenant who
allows any of the following offenses to occur relating to the tenant, member of
the tenant’s household, guest or other party under control of the tenant to
occur: commission of four (4) or more Village ordinance violations in a six (6)
month period or an unreasonably high number of calls for police services
including, but not limited to, calls that may fall within the descriptions
listed above that, when compared to other properties in the Village of similar
type, reasonably indicate that the activity at this property is out of
character for the area and is impacting the quality of life of those in the
area.
§ 3-15-7 INSPECTIONS.
   A.   The Code Official shall conduct inspections of rental dwellings as
follows:
      1.   Multiple Rental Dwellings (i.e., Apartments): Inspections of
multiple rental dwellings shall be performed annually with the units to be
inspected chosen at random. The number of dwellings required to be inspected
shall be determined using the current year’s inspection results and then
applying the following:
         a.   Twenty-five percent (25%) of dwelling units must be inspected
annually if the average number of violations per dwelling unit and its common
areas equal three (3) or less violations;
         b.   Fifty percent (50%) of dwelling units must be inspected annually
if the average number of violations per dwelling unit and its common areas
equal four (4) to five (5) violations;
         c.   One hundred percent (100%) of dwelling units must be inspected
annually if the average number of violations per dwelling unit and its common
areas equal six (6) or more violations.
      2.   Single-Family Rental Dwellings (i.e., Attached, Detached and
Condos): An inspection of a single-family rental dwelling shall be conducted
annually.
      3.   Additional Inspections: Such additional inspections as directed by
the Code Official as deemed necessary as a result of complaints or such other
information which would indicate sufficient noncompliance so that additional
inspections are deemed necessary and appropriate.
      4.   Inspection of Premises Surrounding Dwelling: The Code Official is
hereby authorized to inspect the premises surrounding dwellings, dwelling
units, dormitories, dormitory rooms and commercial properties subject to this
Chapter for the purpose of determining whether there is compliance with its
provisions.
      5.   Access: The owner, occupant, property manager or other person in
charge of a multi-family dwelling unit, a single-family dwelling unit or such
other dwelling units regulated and licensed herein, upon presentation of proper
identification by the Code Official or their representative, shall give entry
and free access to every part of the property being inspected, including the
outside area surrounding the premises.
      6.   Suspension or Revocation: If any owner, occupant, property manager
or other person in charge shall fail or refuse free entry or access to the
licensed premises under their control, or any part thereof, with respect to
which an inspection authorized by this Chapter is sought to be made, the Code
Official may cause the license to be suspended or revoked as provided for in
this Chapter.
§ 3-15-8 RENTAL LICENSE FEES.
   A.   Annual License Fees: See Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
   B.   Inspection Fees:
      1.   Initial Inspection: Initial inspection included in the license fee.
      2.   Reinspections: There is hereby established reinspection fees with
respect to rental housing dwellings. Reinspection shall be conducted, as
necessary, after each compliance date set forth in the inspection report. The
first reinspection fee and all subsequent reinspections necessitated by the
continued existence of violations shall be as set forth in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
   No license or renewal license shall be issued unless all fees and costs of
inspections are paid in full.
   C.   Late Charges:
      1.   Late charges for license fees and reinspection fees shall be fifty
percent (50%) of the original amount due provided that late charges will not be
assessed within the first thirty (30) days after the due date.
§ 3-15-9 SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS PROHIBITED.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to operate, use, offer
for rent or use, or advertise for rent or use, any property, or portion
thereof, within the Village as a Short-Term Residential Rental, except as set
forth in Subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Subsection A of this
Section, it shall not be considered a Short-Term Residential Rental when the
preceding owner of a property maintains possession of a Residential Structure
after closing for the sale thereof, but leases the property back from the
successor owner for a period of time pursuant to a written agreement.
§ 3-15-10 ENFORCEMENT/PENALTIES.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, any property owner violating any
provisions of this Chapter or other applicable code or regulation of the
Village shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a
violation occurs or continues to exist, and further provided, however, that the
penalty for violating the provisions of Section
3-15-9A of this Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day a violation occurs or continues to exist.
CHAPTER 16: PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL SALES DEALERS
Section
   
3-16-1   Definitions
   
3-16-2   License Required
   
3-16-3   Application for License
   
3-16-4   Restrictions on Licenses
   
3-16-5   Maintenance of Records
   
3-16-6   Removal of Identifying Marks Prohibited
   
3-16-7   Video Camera Surveillance Required
   
3-16-8   Inspections
   
3-16-9   Penalty
§ 3-16-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   PAWNBROKER: Any person who lends money on deposit or pledge of physically
delivered personal property, or who deals in the purchase of personal property
on condition of selling the same back at a stipulated price, or who publicly
displays at their place of business the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to
denote the pawnbroker business, or who publicly displays a sign which
indicates, in substance, a business on the premises which “loans money for
personal property, or deposit or pledge”. The business of a pawnbroker shall
not include the lending of money on deposit or pledge of title to property.
   PRECIOUS METAL SALES DEALERS: Any dealer who buys, sells or otherwise
conducts business in secondhand jewelry, coins, gold, silver, platinum, gems
and other precious metals.
   SECONDHAND PROPERTY: Any previously owned audio-video equipment, compact
disk, audio or video tapes or recordings, camera, computer hardware, jewelry
made of precious metal or stone, article made of precious metal, precious stone
or gem, watch, equipment, machine, tool or device.
§ 3-16-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate, carry on or manage
a pawnbroker business or a precious metal sales business, either by themself or
through an agent, employee or partner, without first having obtained a license
as is herein provided.
§ 3-16-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such license shall be made to the Finance Department, in
writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly sworn agent
thereof, if a corporation, verified by oath or affidavit and shall contain the
following statements and information:
   A.   The name, age, date of birth and address of the applicant, in the case
of an individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized and the names and
addresses of the officers, directors, all persons owning directly or
beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation and
the person(s) managing the premises;
   B.   The length of time said applicant has been in this type of business, or
in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was issued and a copy
of the charter;
   C.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license, including security devices and systems
which will be installed on the premises;
   D.   A statement whether the applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application;
   E.   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified to receive a license
by reason of any matter or thing contained in this Chapter, laws of the state
or the ordinances of the Village, and a statement as to whether the applicant
has ever been convicted of any felony, theft, burglary or possession of stolen
property or any other criminal offense relating to dishonesty or breach of
trust in connection with the operation of a pawnshop or precious metal sales
business;
   F.   Whether a previous license issued by any state, or subdivision thereof,
has been revoked and the reasons thereof;
   G.   The application for a license shall be accompanied by the license fee
as established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-16-4 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who has been found guilty of a felony under any federal or
state law or of the offense of theft, burglary, possession of stolen property
or of any violation of the pawnbroker’s and precious metal sales dealer’s
provisions of this Chapter;
   B.   A person whose license under this Chapter has been revoked for cause;
   C.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   D.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   E.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning directly or beneficially in the aggregate
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason;
   F.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   G.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
issued.
§ 3-16-5 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker and/or limited precious metal
sales dealer to accept, buy or exchange any article prior to examining the
identifying credentials of the person pawning, selling or exchanging any
article of property included under the provisions of this Chapter. A photocopy
of said credentials shall be saved and produced to the Elk Grove Village Police
Department upon request.
   B.   Each licensee shall keep a legible and accurate record of the property
pawned, pledged or sold, which record shall include the amount of money
involved in the transaction and the person pawning, pledging or selling the
articles of property and/or jewelry. In addition, each licensee shall enter the
record as set forth above on an approved computer form in a computerized
recordkeeping system, approved and designated by the Police Department. Each
entry shall include a description of the individual pawning, pledging or
selling the articles including the hair color, sex, approximate height, weight,
date of birth, driver’s license number and/or copy of a state ID together with
a digital photograph as well as an accurate description of the goods, articles
or property involved in the transaction, including the manufacturer, model,
serial number or any such number or marking that is engraved, etched or written
upon said property.
§ 3-16-6 REMOVAL OF IDENTIFYING MARKS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall remove, alter or obliterate any manufacturer’s make, model
or serial number, personal identification number or identifying marks engraved
or etched upon an item of personal property that was purchased or received in
pledge until such time that the licensee becomes the legal owner of the
property. In addition, an item shall not be accepted for pledge or purchase
where the manufacturer’s make, model or serial number, personal identification
number or identifying marks engraved or etched upon an item of personal
property has been removed, altered or obliterated.
§ 3-16-7 VIDEO CAMERA SURVEILLANCE REQUIRED.
   Each pawnbroker and precious metal sales dealer shall be required to
install, operate and maintain a video camera surveillance system capable of
recording clear and unobstructed photographic representations of their
customers and shall retain the videotape recordings produced therefrom for at
least thirty (30) days. Said videotape recordings shall be subject to
inspection and copying by the police during normal business hours.
§ 3-16-8 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be
made such inspections that may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
§ 3-16-9 PENALTY.
   The provisions of Section
3-1-16 of this Title shall apply to any violations of the provisions of this
Chapter.
CHAPTER 17: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
3-17-1   Definitions
   
3-17-2   Video Gaming Commissioner; Commission
   
3-17-3   License Required
   
3-17-4   Application for License; Registration Fee
   
3-17-5   License Fee
   
3-17-6   Hours of Operation
   
3-17-7   License Restrictions; Requirements
   
3-17-8   Liquor License and Video Gaming License Violations
§ 3-17-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions for this Chapter are those definitions set forth in the
Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/5) and any emergency amendments related
thereto, which definitions are herein incorporated into this Section by
reference. The following definitions contained are listed for convenience
purposes as same are more pertinent and germane to this licensing Chapter:
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any retail establishment licensed by the Village
where alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for
consumption on the premises. Licensed establishment does not include a facility
operated by an organization licensee, an intertrack wagering licensee or an
intertrack wagering location licensee licensed under the Illinois Horse Racing
Act of 1975, being 230 ILCS 5/1 et seq. or a riverboat licensed under the
Illinois Gambling Act, unless waived by the Illinois Gaming Board.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR: Any individual, partnership, corporation or limited
liability company that is licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, being
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., that owns, services and maintains video gaming terminals
for placement in licensed establishments.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video gaming machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including, but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as
authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board utilizing a video display and
microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that can
be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that directly
dispenses coins, cash or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
§ 3-17-2 VIDEO GAMING COMMISSIONER; COMMISSION.
   The Mayor who is the Liquor Control Commissioner pursuant to Section
3-3-4 of this Title shall be the Local Video Gaming Commissioner and shall
perform all duties not preempted by the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/
1 et seq., which are necessary to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. There
is also established a Local Video Gaming Commission which shall consist of the
same two (2) members appointed by the Mayor to the Liquor Control Commission
who shall advise the Commissioner in the same manner as with the Liquor Control
Commission. Any hearing before the Video Gaming Commission shall be called and
conducted in the same manner as hearings before the Village Liquor Control
Commission.
§ 3-17-3 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensed establishment to display, operate or
otherwise permit the use and operation of any video gaming terminal without
having first obtained a license from the Local Video Gaming Commissioner. It
shall be a prerequisite to any such video gaming terminal license issued by the
Village that such applicant have in place the following licenses:
   A.   A valid license from the Illinois Gaming Board to operate as a licensed
establishment; and
   B.   A valid State of Illinois liquor license issued by the Illinois liquor
commission; and
   C.   A valid liquor license for service of alcoholic liquor on the premises
issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   D.   A valid license for a truck stop establishment as defined in Section 5
“Definitions” of the Video Gaming Act, being 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. The truck
stop establishment is not required to or entitled to the liquor licenses
enumerated in Subsections B and C of this Section.
§ 3-17-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; REGISTRATION FEE.
   All applications for a video gaming establishment license shall be made to
the Local Video Gaming Commissioner or their designated agent. All initial
applications shall be accompanied by a five hundred dollar ($500.00)
nonrefundable registration fee, which fee shall be utilized in the normal
processing and investigation of the license application and shall not be
applied toward the regular license fee.
   The applications shall be made on forms approved by the Local Video Gaming
Commissioner and shall contain as a minimum, the following information:
   A.   A copy of a valid Illinois Gaming Board license; and
   B.   A copy of a valid Illinois liquor license; and
   C.   A copy of a valid Village of Elk Grove liquor license; and
   D.   The number and type of video gaming terminals to be operated; and
   E.   A statement as to whether the applicant has made similar application
and the disposition of such application.
§ 3-17-5 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for a video gaming establishment shall be as
established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title, which fee shall be due before the annual commencement date
of August 1 of each year. All licenses shall terminate on July 31 of each year
unless timely renewed for the subsequent year prior thereto.
§ 3-17-6 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The video gaming license shall be in full force and effect during the hours
of operation of the liquor license establishment wherein the video gaming
terminals are located.
§ 3-17-7 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS; REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Locations of Terminals; Minors Prohibited: All video gaming terminals
shall be located in a segregated area which shall not be accessible to minors.
Applicants shall submit a site plan clearly indicating the proposed location of
all video gaming terminals and the type of barrier to be utilized to segregate
the area, provided however, that such barrier shall not obstruct the view of
the video gaming area which shall be visible to an employee at all times.
Furthermore, such site plan must be approved by the video gaming commissioner
or their designated agent.
   B.   Direct Connect: All licensed establishments shall be equipped with a
direct connect burglar alarm system to Northwest Central Dispatch in instances
of unpermitted entry into the establishment, which system shall be approved by
the Chief of Police.
   C.   Video Camera Surveillance: Each licensed establishment shall be
required to install, operate and maintain a video camera surveillance system
capable of recording clear and unobstructed photographic representations of the
segregated area of the establishment where the terminals are located and shall
retain the video recordings produced therefrom for a minimum of thirty (30)
days. Said video recordings shall be subject to inspections by the Police
Department upon request therefor.
   D.   Compliance with Video Gaming Act: Each licensee shall conform and
adhere to the following sections of the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
and any amendments or emergency amendments relating to any of said sections:
      1.   230 ILCS 40/15 Minimum requirements for licensing and registration;
      2.   230 ILCS 40/20 Video gaming terminal payouts;
      3.   230 ILCS 40/25 Restriction of licensees;
      4.   230 ILCS 40/26 Residency requirement;
      5.   230 ILCS 40/30 Multiple types of licenses prohibited;
      6.   230 ILCS 40/35 Display of license; confiscation; violation as a
felony;
      7.   230 ILCS 40/40 Video gaming terminal use by minors prohibited;
      8.   230 ILCS 40/55 Precondition for licensed location;
      9.   230 ILCS 40/57 Insurance;
      10.   230 ILCS 40/58 Location of terminals.
§ 3-17-8 LIQUOR LICENSE AND VIDEO GAMING LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   Each video gaming establishment licensee, by statute and/or ordinance, has a
liquor license in the Village as well. The Liquor Control Commissioner may
treat any violations of the provisions of this Chapter as a violation of the
liquor license and proceed accordingly with respect to the enforcement
provisions set forth in Section
3-3-12 of this Title, including the authority to fine, suspend or revoke a
license as established in Subsection
3-3-12C of this Title. In addition to all penalties authorized in Section
3-3-12 of this Title, the Liquor Control Commissioner, acting in their capacity
as Video Gaming Commissioner, may require a mandatory identification process
for all individuals entering the segregated area designated for video gaming
terminals and such other requirements as are deemed necessary to ensure
compliance with this Chapter. In addition, should the liquor license of the
establishment be suspended or revoked, then, and in that event, the video
gaming license of the establishment shall likewise be suspended or revoked
concurrently.
CHAPTER 18: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
3-18-1   Definitions
   
3-18-2   Permit Required
   
3-18-3   Permit Application
   
3-18-4   General Standards and Regulations – Rights-of-way
   
3-18-5   Design Standards – All Zoning Districts
   
3-18-6   Abandonment and Removal
   
3-18-7   Fees
§ 3-18-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES: Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or Village amendments
to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities as well as any applicable fee for the
review of such application.
   AUTHORITY: The Village of Elk Grove Village that has jurisdiction and
control for use of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway
Code for placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use
control for placements not within public rights-of-way.
   AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC § 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC § 153(33), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC §
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC § 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FCC ORDER: The FCC’s Declaratory Ruling and Third Report and Order, WT
Docket No. 17-79, WC Docket No. 17-84, FCC-18-133, released September 27, 2018,
which is incorporated herein by this reference.
   FEE: A one-time charge.
   LAW: A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or Village ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty-four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
   PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization, including the Village.
   PUBLIC ACT 100-0585 OR ACT: The Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act,
being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq., and which is incorporated herein by this
reference.
   RATE: A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
“Right-of-way” does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than three (3) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than
twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume. The following types of associated
ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment volume:
electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation box,
ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off
switch and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UNACCEPTABLE INTERFERENCE: Any level of radio frequency (RF) interference
from a source outside of the Village’s public safety communications network
that has the effect of partially or completely impeding aural and/or visual
signals received or transmitted by Village personnel. Any RF interference from
a wireless provider as defined by this Chapter and state law, shall be
measured, corrected and eliminated in accordance with the requirements of
Section 15(d)(6)(A) of Public Act 100-0585, being 50 ILCS 840/15(d)(6)(A).
   UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person, including a person authorized
to provide telecommunications service in the state, that builds or installs
wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless
support structures or utility poles, but that is not a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided using licensed or unlicensed
spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using wireless
facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
§ 3-18-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to place, install or utilize a small wireless facility
in the Village without a permit as herein provided.
§ 3-18-3 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A.   Required Information: The following information shall be provided as
part of a permit application to collocate small wireless facilities on an
existing utility pole, and for the installation of a new utility pole serving
small wireless facilities.
      1.   The operator of a small wireless facility must verify to the Village
that it has received all concurrent licenses and permits required by other
agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction,
location and operation of said facility have been obtained and will be
maintained within the corporate limits of the Village.
      2.   The operator of a small wireless facility must submit to the Village
written copies of the legal authority from the owner for placement of the small
wireless facility on the utility pole prior to issuance of the permit.
      3.   A site-specific structural integrity analysis; and, for utility
poles, a make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer licensed in the
State of Illinois shall be provided.
      4.   A map and site drawing showing the location of each small wireless
facility and utility poles, including photographs of its location and immediate
surroundings depicting the utility pole or structure on which each small
wireless facility would be mounted, or location where wireless support
structures would be installed.
      5.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer
licensed in the State of Illinois for each small wireless facility.
      6.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility.
      7.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility, if approved.
      8.   Certification that the collocation complies with Subsection
3-18-4C of this Chapter referenced herein regarding interference.
      9.   Photographic “before and after” simulations of the proposed location
of the small wireless facility.
      10.   Certification of compliance with applicable FCC regulations. This
includes a non-ionizing radiation electromagnetic radiation (NIER) report for
the small wireless facility equipment type and model endorsed by a radio
frequency engineer licensed in the State of Illinois, including a certification
and the network node complies with all radiation and electromagnetic standards.
The report shall specify approach distances to the general public and
occupational workers at the ground and antenna centerline levels. The report
shall include instructions regarding powering off the equipment or contact
information for a person who can power off the equipment.
   B.   Completeness of Permit Application: Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the Village must determine whether the application is
complete and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village
must specifically identify the missing information.
   C.   Permit Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows.
      1.   The Village shall approve an application unless the application does
not meet the requirements of this Chapter. If the Village determines that
applicable codes, local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety, or the permit application requirements require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval may be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless
support structure at the cost of the provider.
      The Village must document the basis for a denial, including the specific
code provisions or application conditions on which the denial was based, and
send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies
an application.
      The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The Village shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30)
days after the applicant resubmits the application.
      However, the applicant must notify the Village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the resubmitted application.
      Any subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the
denial. However, this revised application cure does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
   D.   Tolling: Small wireless facility shot clocks are reset, not just
tolled, if the Village notifies the applicant within thirty (30) days after
submission that the application is incomplete. For subsequent determinations of
incompleteness, the shot clock would toll - not reset - if the Village provides
written notice within thirty (30) days that the supplemental submission did not
provide the requested information. The time period for applications may be
further tolled by:
      1.   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
Village; or
      2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency
that causes the delay.
   E.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of a single authority shall be
allowed, at the applicant’s discretion, to file a consolidated application and
receive a single permit for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village
may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
   F.   Design Standards Manual: In addition to the application requirements
above, the application must conform with the design guideline requirements as
specified in the Village’s Small Cell Design Standards Manual, which are
incorporated herein by this reference.
   G.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for an authority utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   H.   Means of Submitting Applications: When submitting documentation
required for permits for placement of wireless telecommunication facilities,
the applicant is required to submit six (6) packets of the application as well
as all required and supporting documentation for the application, to the
Village.
   I.   Routine Maintenance of Installed Equipment: The Village shall not
require an application, approval or permit, or require any fees or other
charges, from a communications service provider authorized to occupy the
rights-of-way for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with the requirements of Subsection
3-18-3A of this Chapter; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   However, the Village may require a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures.
§ 3-18-4 GENERAL STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS – RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Small wireless facilities are permitted to be placed in a right-of-way
subject to compliance with the Illinois Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act, being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq., the FCC Order, the Elk Grove Village Design
Standards Manual and to administrative staff review for each site to ensure
compliance with the following regulations. Detailed aesthetic requirements for
all zones of the Village can be found in the small cell design standards
manual.
   A.   Separation and Clearance Requirements: With respect to applications for
the collocation of small wireless facilities associated with a new utility
pole, the Village, at its discretion, may require that the small wireless
facility be collocated on an existing utility pole, or an existing wireless
support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed collocation.
If the applicant determines the alternate location imposes technical limits,
the applicant shall provide written certification specifically describing the
technical limitations.
   B.   Height Limitations: The maximum permitted height of small wireless
antennas shall be not greater than ten feet (10') feet above an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility
is collocated. Unless otherwise authorized by the Village Board, the height of
a new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated is permitted to be the higher of (i) ten
feet (10') in height above the tallest pole, other than utility poles
supporting only small wireless facilities, that is in place on the date the
application is submitted to the Village, that is located within three hundred
feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support
structure and that is in the same right-of-way of the Village’s jurisdictional
boundary; or (ii) forty five feet (45') above ground level.
   C.   Interference: The small wireless facility shall not interfere with the
frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety communications. A
wireless provider shall only install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with public safety
agencies communication equipment.
   D.   Contracts: The wireless provider shall comply with requirements imposed
by a contract between the Village and private owner concerning design or
construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground mounted equipment
in the right-of-way.
   E.   Spacing: Unless otherwise authorized by the Village Board, the wireless
provider shall comply with applicable spacing requirements for ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way.
   F.   Underground Utilities: Small wireless facility provider must comply
with Village Code provisions concerning undergrounding utilities.
   G.   Public Safety: The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable
regulations concerning public safety. It is important to note that small
wireless facilities must not result in human exposure to radio frequency
radiation in excess of applicable safety standards specified in 47 CFR Rule
1.1307(b).
   H.   Term: The duration of a permit for small wireless facilities shall be
five (5) years. The permit may be renewed for additional five (5) year periods
unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facility does not
comply with applicable codes.
   I.   Design Standards: The design of the small wireless facility must
conform with the design guideline requirements as specified in the Village’s
small cell design standards manual.
   J.   License Agreement: Wireless providers locating small wireless
facilities on Village owned property shall be required to enter into a license
agreement with the Village; subject to approval by the Village Board. For small
wireless facilities located on property not owned by the Village, the wireless
provider shall provide proof of a license agreement, lease or similar document
demonstrating legal authority to locate small wireless facilities on property
owned by the applicable government agency or private property owner.
   K.   Insurance: The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless providers
own cost and expense, (i) property insurance for its property’s replacement
cost against all risk; (ii) workman’s compensation Insurance as required by
law; and (iii) commercial liability insurance with respect to its activities
and facilities maintained on the Village rights-of-way.
   L.   Indemnification: A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the
Village harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of the authority improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this Chapter and Public
Act 100-0585, the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being 50 ILCS 840/
1 et seq. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the Village with respect to
consequential, incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   M.   Attachment Limitations: No small wireless facility and antenna within
the right-of-way will be attached to a non-Village utility pole, a Village
utility pole or wireless support structure, unless all of the following
conditions are satisfied:
      1.   Surface Area of Antenna: Each antenna shall be located inside an
enclosure of no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, or in the case of an
antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna and all its exposed elements
must fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet.
      2.   Size of Equipment, Other than Antenna: The total combined volume of
all above-ground equipment and appurtenances comprising a small wireless
facility, exclusive of the antenna itself, cannot exceed twenty-eight (28)
cubic feet.
      3.   Location of Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
small wireless facility must, whenever possible, locate the base of the
equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight feet (8') above
grade.
      4.   Color: A small wireless facility, including all related equipment
and appurtenances, must comply with the applicable aesthetic standards
regarding color of equipment to blend with the surrounding area and structures
for construction in the Village right-of-way. The color shall blend with the
surroundings of the pole, structure tower or infrastructure on which it is
mounted and use nonreflective materials, which blend with the materials and
colors of the surrounding area and structures.
      5.   Antenna Panel Covering: A small wireless antenna may include a
radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield. Such covering must be of
a color that blends with the color of the pole on which it is mounted.
      6.   Wiring and Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to the
remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the Village
Code. No wiring and cabling serving the facility will be allowed to interfere
with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable television or video service
operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
      7.   Grounding: The small wireless facility must be grounded in
accordance with the requirements of the Village Code.
      8.   Signage: Other than signs required by federal law or regulations or
identification and location markings, installation of signs on a personal
wireless telecommunication facility is prohibited.
      9.   Equipment Location: Small wireless utilities located on a utility
pole shall not be installed within the communication worker safety zone of the
pole or the electric supply zone of the pole. Small wireless facilities may be
located in the communication space and on top of the utility pole if space is
otherwise not available in accordance with applicable codes.
§ 3-18-5 DESIGN STANDARDS – ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Design standards within Elk Grove Village vary dependent on the zoning
classification of the prospective new pole or collocation application. These
can be found in the Elk Grove Village small cell design standards manual and
are subject to change at the sole discretion of Village staff.
§ 3-18-6 ABANDONMENT AND REMOVAL.
   Any small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of the facility
must remove same within ninety (90) days of receipt of written notice from the
Village notifying the owner of such abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, by the Village to such
owner at the last known address of such owner. In the case of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities attached to Village-owned infrastructure, if such
facility is not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may
remove or cause the removal of such facility through the terms of the
applicable license agreement or through whatever actions are provided by law
for removal and cost recovery.
§ 3-18-7 FEES.
   Permit fees for small wireless facilities shall be as follows:
   A.   New Utility Pole: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes a new utility pole;
   B.   Collocation: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a single up-front
application that includes up to five (5) small wireless facilities, with an
additional one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each small wireless facility
beyond five (5);
   C.   Annual Rate: Two hundred seventy dollars ($270.00) per small wireless
facility per year is the annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless
facility on an authority utility pole located in a right-of-way.
CHAPTER 19: CANNABIS DISPENSARY
Section
   
3-19-1   Definitions
   
3-19-2   Commissioner; Commission
   
3-19-3   License Required
   
3-19-4   License Fee
   
3-19-5   Location and Building Requirements
   
3-19-6   License Requirements; Restrictions
   
3-19-7   Inspections; Violations; Fines; Suspensions; Revocation; Appeal
§ 3-19-1 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
Chapter shall be construed
according to the definitions given below:
   CANNABIS: Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, “cannabis” does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. “Cannabis” does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. “Cannabis” also means cannabis
flower, concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 1LCS 705/1 et seq.) (Act), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
§ 3-19-2 COMMISSIONER; COMMISSION.
   The Mayor shall be the Cannabis Dispensing Organization License Commissioner
and shall perform all duties not pre-empted by the Act, as amended from time to
time, which are necessary to enforce the provisions of this Chapter. There is
also established a Local Cannabis Dispensing Organization License Commission
which shall consist of the same two (2) members appointed by the Mayor to the
Liquor Control Commission who shall advise the Mayor in the same manner as with
the Liquor Control Commission. Any hearing before the Local Cannabis Dispensing
Organization License Commission shall be called and conducted in the same
manner as hearings before the Village Liquor Control Commission.
§ 3-19-3 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a
cannabis dispensing facility without first having obtained a license from the
Local Cannabis Dispensing Organization License Commissioner. It shall be a
prerequisite to the issuance of any such license that the applicant have in
place, a current, valid State of Illinois cannabis dispensing license issued
pursuant to the Article 15 of the Act.
§ 3-19-4 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for a cannabis dispensing organization license shall
be as established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title, which fee shall be due before the annual commencement date
of August 1st of each year. The Commissioner may prorate the initial year’s
license fee depending on the month and day the initial license is issued. All
licenses shall terminate on July 31st of each subsequent year unless renewed in
a timely fashion.
§ 3-19-5 LOCATION AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Location Requirements:
      1.   Dispensary Organizations will be permitted to open and operate in a
building located in the B-1, B-2 or B-3 zoning districts adjacent to I-1 or I-
2 zoning districts.
      2.   Dispensary Organizations must not be located within one thousand
(1,000') feet of any residential zoned district.
      3.   Dispensary Organizations must be located one thousand (1,000') feet
away from public or private elementary and secondary schools and any day care
centers.
      4.   Dispensary Organizations must be located one thousand (1,000') feet
away from another marijuana dispensary.
      5.   Dispensary Organizations tenant space must be no less than two
thousand (2,000') square feet.
      6.   Dispensary Organizations must provide on-site parking. The minimum
parking space required shall be one (1) parking space per every one hundred
(100') square feet of dispensary tenant space.
   B.   Building Requirements:
      1.   Cannabis Dispensing Facilities must have:
         a.   A lobby waiting area at the entrance with a minimum size of one
hundred (100') square feet, secured or separated from the designated area for
sales by full height walls extending from floor to ceiling;
         b.   A designated area for sales/dispensing;
         c.   A separate and secure designated area for storage.
      2.   Multi-Tenant Facilities: Dispensaries can be located in a multi-
tenant building provided that no other business located therein holds a liquor
license.
      3.   Building Enhancements: All licensed facilities shall install
building enhancements such as security cameras, security alarm systems,
lighting and such other improvements to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the facility, as well as its environs, consistent with the
requirements of the Act and the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program
Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.). All lighting outside and inside the facility
shall be maintained in good working order with sufficient wattage for security
cameras.
      4.   Exterior and Interior Signage:
         a.   Terms including but not limited to “weed”, “pot” or the like are
prohibited from all interior and exterior signage.
         b.   The use of marijuana leaf or the image of any marijuana
paraphernalia on any exterior building identification signage is prohibited.
         c.   Each facility must display both State and Village business
licenses on the premises.
         d.   Each facility must post signs that read:
            (1)   “NO MINORS PERMITTED ANYWHERE ON PREMISES”.
            (2)   “ONSITE CONSUMPTION OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS IS PROHIBITED”.
(Ord. 3706, passed 5-11-2021)
§ 3-19-6 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Hours of Operation: Cannabis Dispensing Organizations shall operate
only between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M.
   B.   Odors: No cannabis odors shall be detectable outside of the Cannabis
Dispensing Organizations.
   C.   Product Display: No products sold by a Cannabis Dispensing
Organizations shall be visible from the public street, sidewalk or other public
place.
   D.   Deliveries: A Cannabis Dispensing Organization may only accept cannabis
deliveries into a restricted access area. Deliveries may not be accepted
through the public or limited access areas unless otherwise approved under the
Act or Medical Cannabis Act.
   E.   Packaging: A Cannabis Dispensing Organization must include the legal
name of the dispensary on the packaging of any cannabis product it sells.
   F.   Cannabis Dispensing Organizations are prohibited from selling any
product containing alcohol, except tinctures, which must be limited to
containers that are no larger than one hundred (100) milliliters.
   G.   Cannabis Dispensing Organizations shall not:
      1.   Sell cannabis, cannabis concentrate or cannabis-infused products in
combination or bundled with each other or any items for one price, and each
item of cannabis, concentrate or cannabis-infused product must be separately
identified by quantity and price on the receipt;
      2.   Sell clones or any other live plant material;
      3.   Have fewer than two (2) people working at the dispensary at any time
while the dispensary is open;
      4.   Operate a dispensary if its video surveillance equipment is
inoperative;
      5.   Operate a dispensary if the point-of-sale equipment is inoperative;
      6.   Operate a dispensary if the State’s cannabis electronic verification
system is inoperative;
      7.   Enter into agreements to allow persons who are not dispensing
organization agents to deliver or transport cannabis to purchasers;
      8.   Operate drive-through windows;
      9.   Allow for the dispensing of cannabis or cannabis-infused products in
vending machines;
      10.   Transport cannabis to residences or other locations where
purchasers may be for delivery;
      11.   Produce or manufacture cannabis;
      12.   Accept a cannabis product from an adult use cultivation center,
craft grower, infuser, dispensing organization or transporting organization
unless it is pre-packaged and labeled in accordance with the Act and any rules
that may be adopted pursuant to the Act;
      13.   Obtain cannabis or cannabis-infused products from outside the State
of Illinois;
      14.   Sell cannabis or cannabis-infused products to a purchaser unless
the dispensary organization is licensed under the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program, and the individual is registered under the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Program or the purchaser has been verified to be over the
age of twenty-one (21);
      15.   Permit any person to smoke, eat or otherwise consume or ingest any
cannabis on the premises or within any parking areas or other public areas on
the premises of the cannabis dispensing facility;
      16.   Keep open for business or admit the public or patrons or customers
or persons to the premises either before or after the permitted hours of
operation or to permit or allow persons, patrons or customers to remain in or
about the premises either before or after the permitted hours of operation;
      17.   Violate any other requirements or prohibitions set by State rules.
   H.   Dual License Prohibited: A Cannabis Dispensing Organization may not be
issued a license to operate any business other than the dispensing license
issued herein at the location of their dispensing facility.
§ 3-19-7 INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS; FINES; SUSPENSIONS; REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   A.   Inspections; Entry Powers: The Local Cannabis Dispensing Organization
Commissioner is hereby given the authority to enter or to authorize the entry
at any time upon any premise licensed hereunder to determine whether any
provisions of the Act or this Chapter have been or are being violated.
   B.   Violation; Hearing; Fine; Suspension or Revocation of License: The
Commissioner shall have the right to hold a hearing for any licensee upon whom
a notice of violation has been served, to hear testimony and take proof for
their information in the performance of their duties.
   If after a hearing on an alleged violation, the Commissioner finds that
there was a violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter, they may
suspend or revoke any license and or fine any licensee for any violation.
   If the Commissioner determines to suspend such license, the term of the
suspension shall not be more than thirty (30) days.
   If the Commissioner elects to fine such licensee, the amount of such fine
shall not be less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense. The Commissioner is
further authorized to assess the licensee for all costs associated with the
hearing including attorney fees and court reporter fees.
   C.   Proceedings Officially Recorded: All proceedings before the
Commissioner shall be recorded and placed in a certified official record of
such proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter.
   D.   Appeal: Any appeal of proceedings for imposition of a fine, suspension
or revocation of licenses shall be limited to a review of the official record.
CHAPTER 20: PRIVATE SOLAR ARRAYS FOR PUBLIC ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION
Section
   
3-20-1   Definition
   
3-20-2   License Required
   
3-20-3   Conditions
§ 3-20-1 DEFINITION.
   Private Solar Arrays for Public Electrical Distribution: A solar array
operated by an organization or business that distributes the power generated by
the solar array directly to the local public electricity company for
distribution to the public power grid.
§ 3-20-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or company to install, maintain or
operate a private solar array for public electrical distribution system without
first having obtained a license. The annual license fee for a private solar
array for each public electrical distribution system shall be as established in
Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-20-3 CONDITIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure all primary and
accessory private solar array equipment, landscaping, screening and any other
elements of the installation are maintained in good working condition at all
times. Any element of Private Solar Arrays for Public Electrical Distribution
that has been damaged, vandalized or found to be inoperable, must be restored
to an approvable working condition immediately.
   Private Solar Arrays for Public Electrical Distribution shall meet the
following design criteria:
   A.   No ground mounted equipment can be located in any required front yard.
In evaluating whether allowance in the front yard area of a site may be
granted, the Director of Community Development shall find that all the
following exist:
      1.   Conditions related to the request are attributed to the unique
conditions of the building location and business operations;
      2.   Whether sufficient evidence is provided by the applicant that
supports the allowance of equipment in the front yard; and
      3.   The manner in which the equipment is located and screened is
comparable to similar installations and compatible with surrounding areas.
   B.   The required number of parking stalls per the Elk Grove Village Zoning
Ordinance shall not be affected by ground mounted equipment associated with the
solar array installation;
   C.   Electrical supply lines for equipment shall be located underground or
adequately screened from public view in a manner approved by the Director of
Community Development;
   D.   The primary or accessory equipment must be housed and screened in a
manner approved by the Director of Community Development; and
   E.   Primary and accessory equipment shall be protected by barrier curb or
an alternative method as approved by the Director of Community Development.
   Failure to comply with any regulations or license conditions associated with
the installation, maintenance or operation of Private Solar Arrays for Public
Electrical Distribution will result in license termination and the required
removal of equipment and restoration of the affected area within thirty (30)
days of notice from the Village of Elk Grove.
CHAPTER 21: PRIVATE ELECTRICAL VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS FOR PUBLIC USE
Section
   
3-21-1   Definition
   
3-21-2   License Required
   
3-21-3   Conditions
§ 3-21-1 DEFINITION.
   Private Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations for Public Use: A single or
group of electrical vehicle charging stations located on private property,
owned and operated by an organization or business that is separate from the
property owner or tenant, and intended for use and sale to the public. Electric
vehicle charging stations for general public use shall be a permitted accessory
use to the primary use of the property.
§ 3-21-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or company to install, maintain or
operate Private Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations for Public Use without
first having obtained a license. The annual license fee for each charging
station shall be as established in Section
3-1-6 of this Title.
§ 3-21-3 CONDITIONS.
   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure all primary and
accessory charging station equipment, landscaping, screening and parking spaces
are maintained in good working condition at all times. Any element of Private
Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations for Public Use that has been damaged,
vandalized or found to be inoperable, must be restored to an approvable working
condition immediately.
   Private Electrical Vehicle Charging Stations for Public Use shall meet the
following design criteria:
   A.   No equipment can be located in any required front yard unless located
at least sixty (60') feet back from the property line;
   B.   The required number of parking stalls per the Elk Grove Village Zoning
Ordinance shall not be affected by the installation of charging stations;
   C.   Electrical supply lines for equipment shall be located underground;
   D.   The primary or accessory equipment must be housed and screened in a
manner approved by the Director of Community Development;
   E.   Charging Stations for public use shall meet design regulations
established by the United States Access Board, Illinois Accessibility Code and
any other applicable local, State or Federal codes, as amended from time to
time; and
   F.   Primary and accessory equipment shall be protected by barrier curb or
an alternative method as approved by the Director of Community Development.
   Failure to comply with any regulations or license conditions associated with
the installation, maintenance or operation of Private Electrical Vehicle
Charging Stations for Public Use will result in license termination and the
required removal of equipment and restoration of the affected area within
thirty (30) days of notice from the Village of Elk Grove.
TITLE 4: PUBLIC HEALTH
   Chapter
      
1 .   HEALTH AUTHORITY
      
2 .   NUISANCES
      
3 .   CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
      
4 .   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
5 .   PLANTS AND WEEDS
      
6 .   MUNICIPAL WASTE SYSTEM
      
7 .   SMOKE FREE AIR REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: HEALTH AUTHORITY
Section
   
4-1-1   Health Authority
   
4-1-2   Duties and Responsibilities
§ 4-1-1 HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   All references to Health Authority refer to the Director of Community
Development or their designated agent. (See Title 8, Chapter 1 of this Code.)
§ 4-1-2 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Director of Community Development or their designated agent shall be
responsible for the inspection, supervision and enforcement of the health
regulations set forth in this Title as well as the health related licensing
regulations set forth in Title 3 of this Code.
CHAPTER 2: NUISANCES
Section
   
4-2-1   General Nuisance Defined
   
4-2-2   Specific Nuisances Enumerated
   
4-2-3   Administrative Fee
   
4-2-4   Penalties
§ 4-2-1 GENERAL NUISANCE DEFINED.
   It shall be deemed to be a nuisance, and, therefore, unlawful for any person
to commit on a continual basis any one or more of the following acts:
   A.   Conduct which interferes with the rights of other persons, whether in
person, property or enjoyment of property or comfort;
   B.   Conduct which is offensive or noxious or that works harm, inconvenience
or damage to others with respect to their health, comfort, repose or safety or
with respect to the free use and comfortable enjoyment of their property;
   C.   The use of one’s property so as to create or cause a deleterious effect
on the property of others with respect to property value or economic
depreciation.
§ 4-2-2 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   A.   Offensive Smells: Any business or premises which emits or causes the
emission of offensive odors which taint the air, render it unwholesome or make
the air unsafe to the surrounding environment is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance to
remain or exist upon any property under their control.
   B.   Debris, Litter and Yard Waste:
      1.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be a nuisance and, therefore,
unlawful for any person to permit any debris, litter or yard waste to scatter,
accumulate or remain on any property under their control or on any public
street, building or ground or throw or deposit any litter, debris or yard waste
on any public or private property within the Village. “Debris and/or litter”,
as herein defined, shall mean garbage, trash, junk, animal droppings or other
substances which may attract rodents and vermin and may contain infectious
germs or may endanger the health and safety of Village residents. “Yard waste”,
as herein defined, shall mean accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings,
leaves, tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the
maintenance of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
      The provisions of this Subsection B1 shall not be applicable to
compostable materials properly placed in a compost pile in conformance with
Section
4-4-6 of this Title.
      2.   Shopping Center Debris:
         a.   Accumulation of Litter Prohibited: It shall be deemed a nuisance
and, therefore, unlawful for the owner or managing agent of a shopping center
or for any tenant or lessee thereof to allow, suffer, cause or permit debris,
litter or garbage to scatter, accumulate or otherwise remain on property
located within the shopping center or on public or private property located
within three hundred feet (300') of the property line of the shopping center.
         b.   Primary Responsibility; Rebuttal: The provisions of this
Subsection B2 shall be applicable to shopping centers or their tenants
irrespective of whether or not the accumulation or scattering of litter or
debris is caused by a third-party invitee or customer of said shopping center.
The presumption of primary liability and responsibility on the shopping center
or any tenant thereof may be rebutted by the presentation of sufficient
evidence with respect to the shopping center or tenant having in place an
effective cleanup or exterior litter maintenance program which must include the
employment of individuals on a daily, part-time basis for the specific purpose
of eliminating litter or debris on the shopping center premises and on public
or private property located within three hundred feet (300') thereof.
         c.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Subsection B2 shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
      3.   Notice to Remove: It shall be the duty of the Director of Community
Development or their designated agent to serve or cause to be served a notice
upon the owner, lessee or occupant, or any agent, representative or employee of
any such owner, lessee or occupant, of any premises on which debris, litter and
yard waste is permitted to scatter or accumulate in violation of the provisions
of this Chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10)
days from the date thereof. Said notice shall advise the violator that a
failure to abate the nuisance within the designated time period will result in
the Village abating the nuisances and placing a lien on the affected property.
      4.   Abatement by Village; Costs: If the person so served does not abate
the nuisance within ten (10) days, the Director of Community Development may
proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the
abatement and such expense shall be charged to and paid by such owner or
occupant. Notice of the bill for debris, litter and yard waste removal shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises and shall be payable within ten (10) days
from receipt thereof.
      5.   Debris, Litter and Yard Waste Lien:
         a.   Lien Claim: Charges for the removal of litter, debris and yard
waste shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by statute. Within sixty
(60) days after such cost and expense is incurred and remains unpaid, the
Village Attorney or their designee is authorized to file notice of lien in the
office of the recorder of deeds in the county in which such real estate is
located. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
            (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof;
            (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred or payable for the service; and
            (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by
the Village.
         The failure of the Village Attorney to record such lien claim or to
mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills for the removal of
litter, debris and yard waste as provided for in the following Subsection.
         b.   Foreclosure of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid
removal of litter, debris and yard waste shall be sold for nonpayment of the
same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after
deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such
foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the Village.
         The attorney for the Village is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which a bill for the
removal of litter, debris and yard waste has remained unpaid sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered.
   C.   Pollution: It shall be a nuisance and, therefore, unlawful for any
person to cause to be polluted the atmosphere, any waterway, stream, lake,
pond, storm sewer or ground so as to render unsanitary, unsafe or dangerous to
the health and well being of any person or animal, fish or fowl coming in
contact with said polluted air, water or ground within the Village.
   “Polluted”, as used herein, shall mean the presence of one or more
contaminants in sufficient quantities of such characteristics and duration as
to be injurious to human, plant or animal life, to health or to property or to
unreasonably interfere with enjoyment of life or property.
   D.   Stagnant Water:
      1.   Definition: The term “stagnant water” or “standing water” shall mean
any accumulation of water including, but not limited to, ponds, drainage
ditches, basins or low surface level areas in which water is likely to
accumulate and not drain freely, which stagnant or standing water is likely to
enhance or promote the breeding of mosquitoes or other annoying insects or
which is generally unhealthy or unsafe.
      2.   Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared a nuisance to permit
standing or stagnant water to remain upon any property located within the
Village.
      3.   Abatement; Interference Prohibited: The Director of Community
Development, or their designee, is directed to abate such nuisance by any means
deemed necessary so as to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and other annoying
insects. The Director of Community Development, or their designee, is further
directed to contact the Northwest Mosquito Abatement District or any other such
agency to effectuate the provisions of this Subsection.
      It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, obstruct or prohibit the
Village, the Village Manager or any agent of the Village from abating such
nuisance in the manner provided herein.
   E.   Dangerous Premises: It shall be unlawful to permit any building,
structure or place to remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the
public health in any way. Any such structure, building or place is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   F.   Dangerous Acts Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act
which endangers the public health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the
public.
   G.   Cemeteries and Burials: It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish a cemetery or to bury any person within the Village limits or within
a mile thereof except in an established cemetery.
   H.   Dense Smoke: It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of
dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other agency in
the Village so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents thereof.
   I.   Burning Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any
leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon any private property or upon
any public streets, sidewalks or other public areas in the Village.
   J.   Feeding of Wildlife: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
or intentionally place or leave food of any kind outdoors or in a container
placed outdoors in such a manner as to create offensive odors or for the
purpose of feeding wildlife or to become an attractant to rodents, nuisance
birds, wild animals, vermin or insects. Elevated bird feeders may be installed
at least four feet above the ground. Bird feeders must be designed for the
specific purpose of feeding birds and to minimize nuisance, including but not
limited to excessive spillage of feed.
   K.   Rain Barrels: It is hereby declared a nuisance to locate or permit a
rain barrel to be located within the front yard area of any property. Rain
barrels shall be constructed and maintained to prevent the breeding of
mosquitoes and other insects which commonly breed in stagnant water.
   L.   Foreclosed Properties:
      1.   Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person, lender or
owner to permit any foreclosed property to become a nuisance as defined in this
Section and Section
4-2-1 of this Chapter.
      2.   Notice to Remove: It shall be the duty of the director or their
designated agent to serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner or
lender or any agent, representative or employee of any owner, lessee or
occupant of any foreclosed property on which a nuisance exists, that they are
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter and to demand the abatement of
the nuisance within seven (7) days from the date thereof. Said notice shall
advise the violator that a failure to abate the nuisance within the designated
time period may result in the Village abating the nuisance(s) and placing a
lien on the affected property.
      3.   Abatement by Village; Lien; Penalties; Administrative Fee:
         a.   Abatement; Lien: If the person or lender so served does not abate
the nuisance within seven (7) days, the Village may proceed to abate such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement and such expense
shall be charged to and be paid by such owner or occupant. Notice of the bill
for abatement of a nuisance shall be mailed to the owner or occupant of the
foreclosed property and shall be payable within ten (10) days from the date of
mailing. Any unpaid expenses shall constitute a lien on the subject premises
and the Village Attorney is authorized to file notice of lien and process same
in the manner established for the processing of weed cutting liens as set forth
in Section
4-5-5 of this Title.
         b.   Penalties; Administrative Fee: In addition to being subject to
such penalties as set forth in Section
4-2-4 of this Chapter, any person or lender violating the provisions of this
Subsection shall be subject to the payment of an administrative fee for
services including monitoring, inspections, correspondence, lien preparation
and such other expenses incurred by the Village, which administrative fees are
as follows:
            (1)   First time offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
            (2)   Second offense within the same calendar year: One hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00);
            (3)   Third offense within the same calendar year: Two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00);
            (4)   Fourth and/or additional offenses within the same calendar
year: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each such offense.
Cross-reference:
   Burning restrictions, see also Section
4-4-3 of this Title
§ 4-2-3 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In addition to being subject to such penalties as set forth in Section
4-2-4 of this Chapter, any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions
of this Chapter shall be subject to the payment of an administrative fee for
services including monitoring, inspections, correspondence, lien preparation
and such other expenses incurred by the Village, which administrative fees are
as follows:
   A.   First time offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
   B.   Second offense within the same calendar year: One hundred dollars
($100.00);
   C.   Third offense within the same calendar year: Two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00);
   D.   The fourth and/or additional offenses within the same calendar year for
each such offense: Five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
§ 4-2-4 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
In addition to any such penalty, the Village may initiate such injunctive
relief as is necessary in the circuit court of Cook County, Illinois, including
the issuance of a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction, in
order to abate any such nuisance as is set forth in this Chapter.
CHAPTER 3: CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
Section
   
4-3-1   Persons with Contagious Diseases
§ 4-3-1 PERSONS WITH CONTAGIOUS DISEASES.
   A.   Report of Disease Required: Every physician called in to care for or
treat a person afflicted with a contagious disease or any epidemic disease
shall make a report of the same within twenty-four (24) hours after being
called in to the Director of Community Development. In case no physician is in
attendance, it shall be the duty of the person in charge or having the care of
such person to make a report within twenty-four (24) hours from the time the
disease is recognized.
   B.   Quarantine:
      1.   Authority: The Director of Community Development shall have charge
of the enforcement of quarantine rules. They shall have the power and the
authority to place any premises within which a contagious disease or an
epidemic disease occurs under quarantine, and they shall determine the time
when quarantine ends.
   C.   Spreading Contagion Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
spread, willfully or carelessly, any contagious disease or to so cause the
spread of the same.
CHAPTER 4: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
4-4-1   Storage of Garbage and Refuse
   
4-4-2   Collection Fees
   
4-4-3   Accumulation Prohibited; Burning Regulations
   
4-4-4   Recycling Program
   
4-4-5   Leaf Collection Program
   
4-4-6   Composting
   
4-4-7   Administrative Fee
   
4-4-8   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   For provisions regarding scavengers, see Title 3, Chapter 10 of this Code
§ 4-4-1 STORAGE OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   A.   Garbage and Refuse Containers:
      1.   Required: It shall be the responsibility of every owner, or their
agent or occupant, of any house, building or apartment in the Village where
garbage or refuse is created, accumulated or produced to maintain in good order
and repair suitable and sufficient containers for use as receptacles for
domestic garbage and refuse. “Refuse” as herein defined shall mean garbage,
rubbish and/or recyclable materials as defined in Section
4-4-4 of this Chapter. “Garbage” as herein defined shall mean all refuse
accumulations of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attend the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storage of meat, fish, fowl, fruits or vegetables,
and containers originally used for food products. Rubbish includes all other
refuse except rocks, concrete, bricks and dirt.
      2.   Specifications:
         a.   For the purposes of this Chapter, “suitable containers” for
single-family units are defined as containers provided by the franchised waste
hauler, or containers made of metal or plastic, not exceeding thirty (30)
gallons’ capacity each, sold commercially for the specific purpose of garbage
and refuse disposal, which shall have a close fitting top or be capable of
being tightly closed by tying or securing the top.
         b.   For purposes of this Chapter, suitable containers for buildings
other than single-family dwellings may be those designated for use by single-
family dwellings or metal containers with a capacity more than thirty (30)
gallons sold commercially for the specific purpose of garbage and refuse
disposal
and acceptable to the refuse collector. The container shall have a close
fitting top.
         c.   When four (4) or more single-family attached dwelling units
utilize a single location for the collection of garbage and refuse they shall
be required to utilize a rigid container made of metal or plastic, not to
exceed thirty (30) gallons in capacity and sold commercially for the purpose of
garbage and refuse disposal. The container shall have a close fitting top.
Plastic nonrigid containers shall not be allowed. Containers provided by the
franchised waste hauler may also be used pursuant to the contract with the
Village.
      3.   Placement of Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place a refuse or garbage container on the public parkway, in any street, alley
or public way for the purpose of being emptied, except after the hour of six
o’clock (6:00) P.M. on the day prior to the scheduled day of pick up. All
containers shall be removed by seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. on the scheduled day
of pick up and no such garbage or refuse shall be so placed so that it can be
blown about or scattered by the wind.
      On days other than collection days, all garbage, refuse and recycling
containers shall be kept in the garage or in a reasonable location within the
side or rear yard of any lot; no such containers shall be stored or maintained
within the front yard area of any lot.
      4.   Landscape Waste Disposal: All landscape waste shall be disposed of
in proper containers in accordance with the solid waste contract between the
Village and the franchised waste hauler. All residents shall be required to
place official landscape waste disposal stickers on all containers which
contain landscape waste, unless participating in a landscape waste subscription
program through the franchised waste hauler. Containers which do not have the
landscape waste disposable sticker located thereon shall not be collected. It
shall be unlawful for any person to place or to cause the placement of a
fraudulent, counterfeit or improper landscape waste disposal sticker on any
container placed for collection in the Village.
§ 4-4-2 COLLECTION FEES.
   Fees shall be established in accordance with the current contract as
approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
§ 4-4-3 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED; BURNING REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage or refuse in the Village
or to permit the same to accumulate in any manner so as to create a nuisance or
to attract vermin.
   Where new construction or major remodeling is taking place, open burning of
refuse derivable therefrom is prohibited.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Subsection
4-2-2I of this Title
§ 4-4-4 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   The owner or occupant of each residence or residential unit in the Village
shall cooperate and comply with the Village’s recycling program. All recyclable
materials shall be separated from other solid waste, grouped together by like
materials and placed in specifically designated containers for collection
according to the collection schedule of the Village. “Recyclable materials”, as
herein defined, shall include newspapers, glass, aluminum, bimetal (tin),
plastic (HDPE, PET) or such other materials as is determined by the Village.
   Owners or operators of multi-family dwellings must provide separate
containers for recyclable materials in conjunction with the Village’s recycling
program in or outside of the residential units and must notify tenants of the
Village’s recycling program.
   All recyclable materials collected and deposited as provided in this Section
shall be the property of the Village and it shall be unlawful for any
individual to remove or confiscate any recyclable materials placed in
designated containers.
§ 4-4-5 LEAF COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   A.   Establishment: There is hereby established a leaf collection program
for all single-family and multi-family dwellings. The program shall permit
residents to deposit leaves in streets under the jurisdiction and maintenance
of the Village subject to the following conditions and exceptions.
      1.   Leaves shall be placed in continuous rows, not piles, on the
pavement adjacent to, but one foot (1') away from the curb.
      2.   Leaves shall be deposited after three o’clock (3:00) P.M. on the day
preceding collection and before seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. on the day of
collection.
      3.   Parking shall be prohibited on all streets within the collection
areas on the day of collection beginning at seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. until the
leaves are removed.
      4.   Only leaves shall be placed in the street. Foreign material,
including, but not limited to, grass, branches, metal, domestic waste and
recyclables shall not be placed in the street.
      5.   Residents are prohibited from depositing leaves on the pavements of
streets under the jurisdiction and maintenance of the State and County Highway
Departments including Arlington Heights Road and Landmeier Road. Also,
residents may not place leaves on the pavements of the following Village
maintained streets:
         Biesterfield Road from Arlington Heights Road to Wise Road;
         Elk Grove Boulevard, from Tonne Road to Rev. Morrison Boulevard;
         John F. Kennedy Boulevard;
         Rev. Morrison Boulevard;
         Tonne Road;
         Wise Road.
      Residents whose homes abut the aforementioned roads may place their
leaves on the parkway as close to the street as possible but in no event shall
such residents place their leaves on said streets.
   B.   Collection May Be Restricted: At the discretion of the Director of
Public Works or their duly authorized representative, special instructions may
be given to residents pertaining to the collection if the safety and health of
the general public is threatened or operating conditions require deviation from
the posted plan.
   C.   Enforcement; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit
leaves on any public street not located within the above established collection
area or for any person within the established collection area to violate any of
the provisions set forth in this Section. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 4-4-6 COMPOSTING.
   Compostable materials such as grass, trimmings, wood waste, leaves, weeds,
fruits and vegetables, breads and grains, coffee grounds, egg shells and other
garden refuse may be placed in a compost pile, provided it is placed in such a
way so the material will not be windblown. The depositing of garbage, pet
waste, meat scraps or other materials that may attract animals or vermin to the
compost pile, or which may produce an obnoxious odor, shall be prohibited.
   Compost piles shall only be permitted in rear yards, except that portion of
the rear yard wherein a drainage and utility easement exists, and must be
located at least five (5') feet from the side property line. In no case shall a
compost pile be located in any side yard.
   Compost piles shall be no more than five feet (5') in height, and shall not
have a maximum ground or base area of more than one hundred (100') square feet.
§ 4-4-7 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In addition to being subject to such penalties as set forth in Section
4-4-8 of this Chapter, any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions
of this Chapter shall be subject to the payment of an administrative fee for
services including monitoring, inspections, correspondence, lien preparation
and such other expenses incurred by the Village, which administrative fees are
as follows:
   A.   First time offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
   B.   Second offense within the same calendar year: One hundred and fifty
dollars ($150.00);
   C.   Third offense within the same calendar year: Two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00);
   D.   The fourth and/or additional offenses within the same calendar year for
each such offense: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
§ 4-4-8 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 5: PLANTS AND WEEDS
Section
   
4-5-1   Weeds Defined
   
4-5-2   Height Restrictions
   
4-5-3   Notice to Remove; Abatement by Village; Costs
   
4-5-4   Weed Cutting Lien
   
4-5-5   Administrative Fee
   
4-5-6   Penalties
§ 4-5-1 WEEDS DEFINED.
   “Weeds”, as used in this Chapter, shall include the following:
   A.   Noxious Weeds: Ragweed, giant and common; Canadian thistles and all of
its varieties; perennial sow thistle; European bindweed; hoary cress, leafy
spurge, Russian knapweed, poison ivy and any plants referenced by the Illinois
Noxious Weed Law, being 505 ILCS 100-1, as amended from time to time, or as
specified by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
   B.   Other Weeds: Any other plant or weed having the potential to cause
injury or harm to public health or that are deemed detrimental to land or
property value.
§ 4-5-2 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be a nuisance and, therefore, unlawful for any owner, lessee or
occupant, or any agent, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee or
occupant, having charge or control of any lot within the Village to permit or
maintain on any such lot, including the area located between the property line
and the curb or edge of roadway, any growth of grass or “weeds” as herein
defined over the following height limits:
 
Improved property 6 inches
Vacant property   8 inches
 
§ 4-5-3 NOTICE TO REMOVE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Community Development or their
designated agent to serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner, lessee
or occupant, or any agent, representative or employee of any such owner, lessee
or occupant, of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in
violation of the provisions of this Chapter and to demand the abatement of the
nuisance within a designated time period.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within the designated
time period, the Director of Community Development or their designated agent
may proceed to abate the nuisance and all costs associated with said abatement,
including any late fees or penalties, if applicable, shall be charged to and
paid by such owner or occupant.
   Once such demand and abatement process occurs within any calendar year, any
subsequent violation within that calendar year may be abated by the Director or
their agent without the necessity of the formal notice process and all costs of
subsequent abatement shall be charged to and paid by such owner or occupant.
§ 4-5-4 WEED CUTTING LIEN.
   A.   Lien Claim: Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises
as provided by statute (65 ILCS 5/11-20-7). Within sixty (60) days after such
costs and expense is incurred and remains unpaid, the Village Attorney or their
designee is authorized to file notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds in the county in which such real estate is located or in the office of
the registrar of titles of such county if the real estate affected is
registered under the torrens system. The notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
      1.   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      3.   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
Village.
   The failure of the Village Attorney to record such lien claim or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills for weed cutting as provided
for in the following Subsection.
   B.   Foreclosure of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity
in the name of the Village.
   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which a bill for weed cutting has
remained unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered.
§ 4-5-5 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In addition to being subject to such penalties as set forth in Section
4-5-6 of this Chapter, any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions
of this Chapter shall be subject to the payment of an administrative fee for
services including monitoring, inspections, correspondence, lien preparation
and such other expenses incurred by the Village, which administrative fees are
as follows:
   A.   First time offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00);
   B.   Second offense within the same calendar year: One hundred and fifty
dollars ($150.00);
   C.   Third offense within the same calendar year: Two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00);
   D.   The fourth and/or additional offenses within the same calendar year for
each such offense: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
§ 4-5-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person who does not abate the nuisance within the required time period
or who otherwise violates the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a nuisance continues unabated after
ten (10) days from receipt of notice.
   In addition to any penalties herein provided, the Village may issue stop
work orders upon owners of lots where work is unfinished under a previously
issued building permit for any violation of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 6: MUNICIPAL WASTE SYSTEM
Section
   
4-6-1   Definitions
   
4-6-2   Findings
   
4-6-3   Required Use of Municipal Waste System
   
4-6-4   Franchise Collection
   
4-6-5   Municipal Waste System Fund; Imposition of Rates and Charges
   
4-6-6   Penalties
§ 4-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   AGENCY: The Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook County (SWANCC).
   MUNICIPAL WASTE SYSTEM: The waste collection, transportation and disposal
system of the Municipality operated under a franchise agreement entered into
pursuant to Section
4-6-4 of this Chapter, including all physical assets of the Municipality used
for the collection, transportation and disposal of system waste; all amounts on
deposit in the Municipal waste system fund; and all amounts collected on
account of rates and charges imposed under this Chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Elk Grove Village.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture or corporation, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PROJECT USE AGREEMENT: The 1992 Project Use Agreement by and between the
Village and the Agency, as amended from time to time.
   SYSTEM WASTE: Garbage and general household waste, institutional waste and
construction and demolition waste, that is discarded by persons within
residential zoned districts and further described as single-family attached and
detached dwelling units, multi-family dwelling units, congregate housing,
Library and Village owned municipal buildings.
   System Waste does not include industrial, commercial, innovation and
technology and office transitional areas of the Village or governmental
agencies other than the Village and the Library.
§ 4-6-2 FINDINGS.
   The Municipality finds as follows.
   A.   It is necessary for and in the best interests of the Municipality to
regulate and control the collection, transportation and disposal of municipal
waste in the exercise of its police power in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of its residents.
   B.   The Municipality is authorized pursuant to Article VII, Section 6 of
the Illinois Constitution, 65 ILCS 5/11-19-1 et seq. and 5 ILCS 220/3.2 of the
Intergovernmental Cooperation Act to provide for the method or methods of
collection, transportation and disposal of municipal waste within its corporate
limits and to provide that the method chosen may be the exclusive method to be
used within the corporate limits.
   C.   The Municipality acting pursuant to Article VII, Section 10 of the
Illinois Constitution and 5 ILCS 220/3.2 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation
Act has entered into an intergovernmental agreement with other north and
northwest suburban Cook County municipalities, thereby creating the agency to
provide an efficient and environmentally sound municipal waste disposal system.
   D.   The Municipality entered into a Project Use Agreement by which the
Agency will acquire, construct, operate, equip and improve a municipal solid
waste project to provide for the disposal of System Waste of the Municipality
and other members of the agency.
   E.   Under the Project Use Agreement, the Municipality is obligated to
establish a municipal waste disposal system, to cause system waste collected
within its corporate limits to be delivered to the Agency and to make certain
payments to the Agency, all as described in the Project Use Agreement.
   F.   It is necessary and in the best interests of the Municipality to
provide for the environmentally sound and efficient collection, transportation
and disposal of system waste by creating a municipal waste system, by providing
for the disposal of System Waste by delivery to the Agency and to impose the
rates and charges provided for herein.
§ 4-6-3 REQUIRED USE OF MUNICIPAL WASTE SYSTEM.
   A.   All persons owning or occupying real estate within the corporate limits
of the Municipality shall dispose of the System Waste through the municipal
waste system. All System Waste shall be collected by or on behalf of the
municipality pursuant to the terms of this Chapter and shall be delivered to a
transfer station as directed by the Agency and the Village or as otherwise
agreed to by the Agency and the Municipality under the Project Use Agreement.
   B.   At any time the Village Manager or their designated agent deems it
necessary to protect the health and welfare of the Village, any waste not
otherwise prohibited by the agency and not within the geographical service area
of the Village can be delivered to the agency; provided that the Agency agrees
to accept such waste.
   C.   No person shall dispose of System Waste through the municipal waste
system unless the System Waste complies with all rules and regulations
applicable thereto and established from time to time by either the Municipality
or the Agency.
   D.   Any person disposing of System Waste through the municipal waste system
shall pay the rates and charges established by the Municipality under the
provisions of Section
4-6-5 of this Chapter.
§ 4-6-4 FRANCHISE COLLECTION.
   A.   No person shall collect, transport or dispose of System Waste without
entering into a franchise agreement with the Village pursuant to this Section.
Franchise agreements may be entered into with one or more contractors to
service the defined geographical service area.
   B.   All franchisees shall operate within the guidelines of this Chapter and
its franchise agreement with the Village.
   C.   Any person who has entered into a franchise agreement to collect,
transport or dispose of System Waste shall comply with the following
obligations as a condition of that franchise:
      1.   Comply with all the laws, ordinances, rules and regulations
pertaining to the collection, transportation and disposal of System Waste as
may be enacted from time to time by any lawful authority, including the State
of Illinois, the Municipality and the Agency;
      2.   Deliver all System Waste to the transfer station designated by the
Agency and the Municipality;
      3.   Maintain all equipment used to collect, transport and dispose of
System Waste in good repair and working order and operate it efficiently and
effectively;
      4.   Maintain accurate books and records and make them available to the
Municipality upon demand.
   D.   Renewal and revocation of a franchise agreement shall be as delineated
in the franchise agreement.
   E.   Properties within the defined geographical service area, reflected on
the map referred hereto by reference, shall not be permitted to contract for
scavenger services beyond October 31, 1994.
§ 4-6-5 MUNICIPAL WASTE SYSTEM FUND; IMPOSITION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   A.   There is hereby created and established a special revenue fund of the
Municipality known as the municipal waste system fund, which shall be separate
and apart from all other funds and accounts of the Municipality as provided in
Subsection G of this Section.
   B.   Before the beginning of each fiscal year, the Village Treasurer shall
recommend and the Municipality shall adopt a budget for the municipal waste
system. The budget shall estimate the revenue required to:
      1.   Pay all operating and maintenance expenses of the municipal waste
system, including all obligations to the agency under the Project Use
Agreement;
      2.   Pay as they become due interest on and principal of any revenue
bonds or other obligations payable from the revenues of the municipal waste
system;
      3.   Provide for all unpaid claims; and
      4.   Maintain appropriate depreciation and reserve funds, including
reserves for uncollected charges. The budget shall estimate the amounts
available to pay those obligations from a) taxes levied and anticipated to be
collected pursuant to law; b) other amounts deposited in the municipal waste
system fund; and/or c) rates and charges to be imposed on persons disposing of
System Waste through the municipal waste system.
   C.   The rates and charges imposed for use of the municipal waste system
shall be sufficient, after taking into account monies then on hand in the
municipal waste system fund:
      1.   To pay all operation and maintenance expenses of the municipal waste
system, including all obligations to the Agency under the terms of the Project
Use Agreement;
      2.   To pay as they become due interest on and principal of any revenue
bonds or other obligations payable from revenues of the municipal waste system;
      3.   To provide for all unpaid claims;
      4.   To provide adequate depreciation and reserve funds for the municipal
waste system, including reserves for uncollected charges.
   D.   The Village shall have the responsibility of billing and collecting all
fees in conjunction with the operation of the municipal waste system.
   E.   The owners and occupants of real estates within the Village served by
the municipal waste system shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all
rates and charges imposed by the municipality pursuant to the provisions of
this Section.
   F.   Charges and penalties for delinquent payments shall be as set forth in
Section
7-2-5-4 of this Code.
   G.   All amounts collected from rates and charges imposed under this Section
shall be deposited in the municipal waste system fund, and together with all
other amounts deposited in the municipal waste system fund, shall be separate
and apart from all other monies of the Municipality; provided that amounts
deposited in the municipal waste system fund may be invested together with
other funds of the Municipality.
§ 4-6-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
In addition to any such penalty, the Village may initiate such injunctive
relief as is necessary in the Third Municipal District of the Circuit Court of
Cook County, Illinois, including the issuance of a temporary restraining order
and preliminary injunction, in order to abate any such violation as is set
forth in this Chapter.
CHAPTER 7: SMOKE FREE AIR REGULATIONS
Section
   
4-7-1   Purpose
   
4-7-2   Definitions
   
4-7-3   Enclosed Public Places
   
4-7-4   Unenclosed Public Places and Outdoor Venues
   
4-7-5   Places of Employment
   
4-7-6   Public Entrances
   
4-7-7   Signs
   
4-7-8   Penalty
§ 4-7-1 PURPOSE.
   It has been determined and the Village hereby finds that smoking and the
resultant secondhand smoke can have a deleterious effect on the health and
welfare of those in the vicinity where such smoking occurs. Secondhand smoke
has been deemed a class A carcinogen which produces substances such as carbon
monoxide, hydrogen cyanide and other substances considered hazardous and
dangerous to individuals’ health. As a result, the Village has determined that
it is necessary and desirable to establish regulations that prohibit smoking in
certain hereinafter designated areas.
§ 4-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
association or other business entity, whether formed for profit or nonprofit
purposes and shall include clubs as herein defined.
   CLUB: A private not for profit association, corporation or other entity
consisting of persons who are bona fide paying members and which owns, leases
or uses a building or portion thereof, the use of which is restricted primarily
to members and their guests.
   EMPLOYER: Any business that employs one or more employees.
   ENCLOSED AREA: All space in any structure or building that is enclosed on
all sides by any combination of walls, windows or doorways, extending from
floor to ceiling and in addition, shall include, without limitation, lobbies,
hallways, reception areas, restrooms, elevators and staircases.
   OPEN AIR DINING AREA: A seating area open to the air that is accessory to a
restaurant, hotel, cafeteria, private club or other public place engaged in
purveying commercial food or beverage service where members of the public,
members or guests are invited to sit and receive food and beverage service for
a consideration.
   PARK: A public park or recreation area that is open to and used by the
general public.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: An area under the control of a public or private
employer within the Village that employees normally frequent during the course
of employment, and includes, without limitation, common work areas, private
offices, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, cafeterias,
elevators, employee lounges, staircases, hallways and restrooms. Place of
employment does not include a private dwelling unit unless the dwelling is also
used as a daycare facility.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE:
      1.   The main doorway or other entrance to a public place that is open to
and intended for use by the general public for ingress and egress to the public
place.
      2.   A doorway or other entrance for pedestrian ingress and egress to a
place of employment: 1) that is open to and intended for use by the general
public or business invitee’s ingress and egress to the place of employment;
and/or 2) where employees are required or permitted to enter or exit the place
of employment.
   PUBLIC PLACE:
      1.   Any industrial, business or commercial area that is open to and used
by the general public, or any area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, and any common or public area (including, without
limitation, lobbies, hallways, reception areas, public restrooms, elevators and
staircases) of residential facilities such as apartment buildings,
condominiums, dormitory buildings, nursing home care facilities and other
multiple-family residential structures and nursing home and long-term care
facilities, including the living units located therein.
      2.   Any common or public areas as defined herein of governmental, and
educational and service related facilities (including, without limitation,
office buildings, banks and financial institutions, educational institutions,
healthcare facilities such as hospitals, clinics and doctors’ offices, museums,
libraries, restaurants), polling places, government and Village owned
buildings, food stores, cafeterias, theaters, auditoriums, train and bus
stations, hotels, motels and other retail and service establishments; provided
that, a public place shall not include hotel or motel rooms designated as
smoking, provided that no more than twenty percent (20%) of the available rooms
for rent in any single building shall be designated as smoking rooms.
   SMOKE OR SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or form or any
“alternative nicotine product” as defined in Section
3-6B-1 of this Code.
§ 4-7-3 ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   A.   It is unlawful for any individual to smoke in any enclosed area of any
public place.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or lessee, as the case may
be, in control of a public place to knowingly permit smoking in any enclosed
area in a public place.
§ 4-7-4 UNENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES AND OUTDOOR VENUES.
   A.   Unenclosed Public Places: It is unlawful to smoke in the following
unenclosed public places:
      1.   The seating areas of all outdoor arenas, stadiums and amphitheaters;
      2.   The playground area and established seating areas of public parks
and recreation areas;
      3.   School grounds;
      4.   Public sidewalks within fifteen feet (15') of an entrance, but
excluding any person who is temporarily in such area for the purpose of walking
or traversing through such area;
      5.   The public right-of-way (sidewalk to sidewalk) along the routes of
special events including the annual Village parade;
      6.   Open air dining areas.
   B.   Outdoor Venue: It is unlawful to smoke in or within fifteen feet (15')
of an outdoor venue during the time that an outdoor event is taking place.
   C.   Other Village Sponsored Events: It is unlawful to smoke at any Village
sponsored event including, but not limited to, the Memorial Day celebration,
Rotary Fest, the July 4th fireworks event, Unity in the Community Summer
Concert Series and the Village’s annual tree lighting ceremony.
§ 4-7-5 PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   A.   It is unlawful to smoke in any enclosed area of any place of
employment.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any employer to knowingly permit smoking in
any enclosed area of any place of employment.
§ 4-7-6 PUBLIC ENTRANCES.
   It is unlawful to smoke within fifteen feet (15') of a public entrance to a
public place or to a place of employment.
§ 4-7-7 SIGNS.
   A.   Each owner, lessor, lessee, employer or other person in control of a
public place shall post conspicuous “No Smoking” signs in the enclosed area of
any public place where smoking is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, deface or obscure any sign posted pursuant to the provisions
of this Section.
   B.   Each owner, lessor, lessee, employer or other person in control of a
public park or recreation area, or of a school ground, shall cause signs to be
posted at appropriate locations advising persons that smoking is prohibited in
certain locations within the park and recreation areas and on school grounds.
§ 4-7-8 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   In addition, any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this Chapter and who has a business license issued by the
Village, may be subject to having the license suspended or revoked by the
License Review Commission pursuant to Section
3-6B-6 of this Code if the licensee fails to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter.
TITLE 5: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
   Chapter
      
1 .   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
2 .   MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM AGREEMENT
      
3 .   FIRE CODE
      
4 .   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
5 .   FIRE AND AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
6 .   FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
      
7 .   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
5-1-1   Department Established
   
5-1-2   Fire Chief
   
5-1-3   Deputy Fire Chief/Fire Battalion Chief
   
5-1-4   Oath of Office
   
5-1-5   Duties of Department Members
   
5-1-6   Line of Duty
   
5-1-7   Rules and Regulations; Disciplinary Actions
   
5-1-8   Powers During Fires
   
5-1-9   Uniform and Badge
   
5-1-10   Training
   
5-1-11   Inspectional Services Division
§ 5-1-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a Fire Department, an operating
Department of the Village. The Fire Department shall consist of such full-time
and part-time personnel and such other personnel as may be provided by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees. The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall, from time
to time, establish a list of authorized positions which shall be set forth in
the Position Classification and Salary Plans as referenced and established in
Section
1-7-5 of this Code.
§ 5-1-2 FIRE CHIEF.
   A.   Appointment: The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees; provided that if the person
appointed Chief was at the time of such promotion a member of the Department,
the individual shall retain their status and rank while serving as Chief and
shall revert to such status and rank when their appointment as Chief has ended.
   B.   Oath: The Fire Chief, before entering on the duties of the Office,
shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute.
   C.   Powers and Duties:
      1.   Generally: The Fire Chief shall have sole and exclusive control and
management of all matters and things pertaining to the Fire Department and all
employees therein engaged.
      2.   Annual Estimate: Each year, the Fire Chief shall prepare and submit
to the Village Manager an estimate of the total cost and expense of providing
for and maintaining the Fire Department of the Village during the ensuing
fiscal year, which estimate shall be submitted at such time and in such form as
required by the Village Manager.
      3.   Inspections and Investigations; Fires: The Fire Chief shall inquire
into and investigate causes of all fires in the Village as soon after their
occurrence as practical, and shall keep a record of such investigation and the
evidence adduced thereby.
      4.   Reports Required:
         a.   Accidental Fires: At the request of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, the Fire Chief shall prepare and submit a report of all accidents by
fire that may have taken place in the Village during the preceding fiscal year,
the cause of same, a description of all buildings destroyed, as well as a
report as to persons injured or killed.
         b.   Performance Evaluations: The Fire Chief shall establish and
maintain a system for ascertaining and recording the individual performance of
each employee of the Fire Department.
      5.   Records Kept; Generally: The Fire Chief or their designee shall keep
a full and complete record of all transactions of the Department, of all
property in their charge, as well as such records as shall be required to
conduct the business of the Department.
§ 5-1-3 DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF/FIRE BATTALION CHIEF.
   A.   Deputy Fire Chief: The Deputy Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Fire
Chief with the approval of the Village Manager. The Deputy Fire Chief shall
perform such duties heretofore designated for the Fire Chief, in the absence of
the Fire Chief, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the
Fire Chief. The Deputy Fire Chief shall retain their rank and status while
serving as Deputy Fire Chief and shall revert to such rank and status when the
appointment to the Deputy Fire Chief position has ended, as determined by the
Fire Chief.
   B.   Fire Battalion Chief: Fire Battalion Chiefs shall be appointed by the
Fire Chief with the approval of the Village Manager. Fire Battalion Chiefs
shall perform such duties and assignments as directed by the Fire Chief or
Deputy Fire Chief. Fire Battalion Chiefs shall retain their rank and status
while serving as Fire Battalion Chief and shall revert to such rank and status
when the appointment to the Fire Battalion Chief position has ended, as
determined by the Fire Chief.
§ 5-1-4 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All other members of the Fire Department appointed by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners, before entering upon the duties of their office, shall
take the oath of office prescribed by statute.
§ 5-1-5 DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   All members of the Fire Department shall perform such duties as may be
required of them by the Fire Chief and the ordinances of the Village.
§ 5-1-6 LINE OF DUTY.
   During the absence or inability of the Fire Chief, the Deputy Fire Chief
shall temporarily act in their stead. In the absence of both, the Village
Manager may designate an individual to temporarily perform the duties of the
Fire Chief.
§ 5-1-7 RULES AND REGULATIONS; DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS.
   A.   All employees of the Fire Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations and perform such duties as shall be prescribed or required of them
by the Fire Chief or the ordinances of the Village.
   B.   All employees of the Department shall be subject to such rules and
regulations adopted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees pertaining to the
operation of the Fire Department, the Personnel Rules and Regulations of the
Village for all employees and the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Fire
and Police Commissioners of the Village. Each member of the Department shall be
furnished with copies of said Rules and Regulations.
§ 5-1-8 POWERS DURING FIRES.
   A.   Removal of Property: The Fire Chief shall have the power to cause the
removal of any property whenever it shall become necessary for the preservation
of such property from fire or to prevent the spreading of fire or to protect
adjoining property.
   B.   Destruction of Buildings: The Fire Chief or other command staff may
direct the firefighters to cut down and remove any building, erection or fence
for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire.
§ 5-1-9 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Fire Department is required while on duty to wear a
uniform in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Fire Chief and have
in their possession an identification card and/or badge to be furnished by the
Village by which, in case of fire and at other times, the relations of such
members of the Fire Department may be known as the exigencies of their duties
may require.
§ 5-1-10 TRAINING.
   A.   Participation in State Programs: The Village hereby elects to
participate in the programs provided for in the Illinois Fire Protection
Training Act (50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.).
   B.   Training Required: Before an individual may commence regular full-time
duties as a firefighter, they must have been certified by the Illinois State
Fire Marshal as a Basic Operations Firefighter, as having successfully
completed an approved training course as provided in said Act. The Basic
Operations Firefighter training must be completed by the trainee within their
probationary period of twelve (12) months.
§ 5-1-11 INSPECTIONAL SERVICES DIVISION.
   A.   Division Created: The Inspectional Services Division is hereby
established under the direction of the Director of Community Development, in
collaboration with the Fire Department, subject to the general direction of the
Village Manager.
   B.   Duties of Inspectional Services Supervisor: It shall be the duty of the
Inspectional Services Supervisor to:
      1.   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the State, County and Village
covering the following:
         a.   The prevention of fires;
         b.   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
         c.   The maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm systems and
fire extinguishing equipment;
         d.   The maintenance, regulation and adequacy of means of egress;
         e.   The investigation of the cause and origins of fires.
      2.   Provide technical staff assistance and support to the Director of
Community Development of the Village in the following areas:
         a.   Examination of plans for new construction, reconstruction or
alteration of structures and to advise the Director of Community Development
thereon of the extent of noncompliance with established Village requirements
and codes relating to life safety, fire prevention, fire alerting and
suppression systems;
         b.   Inspection of construction in progress to advise the Director of
Community Development thereon of noncompliance with life safety, fire
prevention, fire alerting and suppression systems previously approved for said
construction;
         c.   Review of existing and new standards, codes and requirements to
advise the Director of Community Development thereon of changes considered
necessary for improved life safety, fire prevention, fire alerting and
suppression systems.
      3.   Perform such other duties as may be required from time to time,
including making recommendations to improve this Code.
CHAPTER 2: MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM AGREEMENT
Section
   
5-2-1   Purpose
   
5-2-2   Definitions
   
5-2-3   Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement
   
5-2-4   Obligation of the Village
§ 5-2-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for a program of mutual aid
between the Village and other units of local government who are member units of
the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement (MABAS) whereby each of the member
units shall provide assistance within the terms of the agreement in the event
of a fire or other emergency which cannot be adequately handled by the stricken
unit.
§ 5-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
   AIDING UNIT: A member unit furnishing equipment, personnel and/or services
to a stricken unit.
   DIVISION: The geographically associated member units or unit which have been
grouped for operational efficiency and representation of those member units.
   EMERGENCY: An occurrence or condition in a member unit’s territorial
jurisdiction which results in a situation of such magnitude and/or consequence
that it cannot be adequately handled by the stricken unit and such that a
member unit determines the necessity and advisability of requesting aid.
   EXECUTIVE BOARD: The governing body of MABAS comprised of division
representatives.
   MEMBER UNIT: A unit of local government including but not limited to a city,
Village or fire protection district having a Fire Department recognized by the
State of Illinois, or an intergovernmental agency and the units of which the
intergovernmental agency is comprised which is a party to the MABAS Agreement
and has been appropriately authorized by the governing body to enter into such
agreement, and to comply with the rules and regulations of MABAS.
   MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM (herein referred to as “MABAS”): A definite and
prearranged plan whereby response and assistance is provided to a stricken unit
by the aiding unit(s) in accordance with the system established and maintained
by the MABAS member units and amended from time to time.
   STRICKEN UNIT: A member unit which requests aid in the event of an
emergency.
   TRAINING: The regular scheduled practice of emergency procedures during
nonemergency drills to implement the necessary joint operation of MABAS.
§ 5-2-3 MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM AGREEMENT.
   The Mayor is authorized, on behalf of Elk Grove Village, to enter into and,
from time to time, to alter and amend with the consent of the Village Board the
Mutual Aid Box Alarm System Agreement with the member units providing generally
as follows.
   A.   The Fire Chief or their designee is hereby authorized and directed to
take necessary and proper action to render and/or request mutual aid from other
member units in accordance with the policies and procedures established and
maintained by the MABAS member units. The aid rendered shall be to the extent
of available personnel and equipment not required for adequate protection of
the territorial limits of the aiding unit.
   B.   Personnel dispatched to aid a party pursuant to this Agreement shall
remain employees of the aiding unit. Personnel rendering aid shall report for
direction and assignment at the scene of the emergency to the Fire Chief or
senior officer of the stricken unit. The party rendering aid shall at all times
have the right to withdraw any and all aid upon the order of its Fire Chief or
their designee; provided, however, that the party withdrawing such aid shall
notify the Fire Chief or senior officer of the party requesting aid of the
withdrawal of such aid and the extent of such withdrawal.
   C.   Equipment, personnel and/or services provided pursuant to this
Agreement shall be at no charge to the party requesting aid; however, any
expenses recoverable from third parties shall be equitably distributed among
responding parties. Nothing herein shall operate to bar any recovery of funds
from any state or federal agency under any existing statutes.
   D.   Each party hereto shall procure and maintain, at its sole and exclusive
expense, insurance coverage, including: comprehensive liability, personal
injury, property damage, workman’s compensation and if applicable, emergency
medical service professional liability, with minimum limits of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) auto and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined
single limit general liability and professional liability.
§ 5-2-4 OBLIGATION OF THE VILLAGE.
   The rendering of assistance under the terms of this Agreement shall not be
mandatory if local conditions of the aiding unit prohibit response. It is the
responsibility of the aiding unit to immediately notify the stricken unit of
the aiding unit’s inability to respond; however, failure to immediately notify
the stricken unit of such inability to respond shall not constitute evidence of
noncompliance with the terms of this Section and no liability may be assigned.
CHAPTER 3: FIRE CODE
Section
   
5-3-1   Code Adopted
   
5-3-2   Amendments to Code
   
5-3-3   Modifications
   
5-3-4   Access to Structures
   
5-3-5   Jurisdiction of Code
   
5-3-6   Inspections
   
5-3-7   Preventable False Alarms; Fees
   
5-3-8   Penalties
§ 5-3-1 CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the International Fire Code, 2024 edition,
prepared and published by the International Code Council, together with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, which is
available for viewing in the Department of Community Development. This code
shall govern the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
§ 5-3-2 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   A.   Appendices: The appendices of the International Fire Code herein
adopted by the Village are mandatory requirements, considered as part of each
standard and not advisory information.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Fire Code, 2024 edition:
SECTION 101
ADMINISTRATION - general
   101.1 is amended to read as follows:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the Village
of Elk Grove Village, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   101.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
101.2.1 Appendices. The appendices B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, and O
are to be considered “shall” requirements, not “should” information.
   101.5.1 is added to read as follows:
101.5.1 Conflicting Code Information. In the event, that this code or any
portion thereof shall conflict with another code or portion thereof on the same
subject matter the more stringent code shall apply.
   101.6 is added to read as follows:
101.6 NFPA Appendices: The appendices of all NFPA standards are to be
considered as part of each standard and are considered “shall” requirements,
not “should” information.
SECTION 102
APPLICABILITY
   102.3 is amended to read as follows:
102.3 Change of use or occupancy. A change of use or occupancy shall not be
made to any building or tenant space without approval of the Fire Code
Official. The Fire Code Official shall certify that such building or tenant
space meets the provisions of law governing building construction for the
proposed new use or occupancy. The building is required to comply with the fire
protection requirements of this code.
   Exceptions to 102.3 are deleted.
SECTION 105
PERMITS
   105.3.6.1 is added to read as follows:
105.3.6.1 Compliance With Code: The Fire Code Official reserves the rights to
send out any plan reviews to a third-party agency because of the level of
difficulty or availability of personnel to perform the review. The third-party
agency shall invoice the permit holder directly for the services rendered.
   105.3.6.2 is added to read as follows:
105.3.6.2 Compliance: No building or structure shall be constructed or occupied
if said building or structure is not in compliance with this ordinance. An
occupancy permit shall be issued by the Village of Elk Grove Village Community
Development Department prior to occupancy when it is determined the building or
structure has been constructed in compliance with this ordinance.
   105.3.9 is added to read as follows:
105.3.9 Approval of occupancy. The Fire Code Official shall approve occupancy
only if, after inspection, he/she finds that such building or tenant space
complies with the provisions of this Ordinance and all other Ordinances of the
Village of Elk Grove Village, and that said building or tenant space has been
completed in accordance with the approved plans and documents filed in support
of the Application for Building Permit relating to said building or tenant
space.
SECTION 109
INSPECTIONS
   109.5 is added to read as follows:
109.5 Inspection and Enforcement process: In its efforts to ensure that fire
protection safety for its residents and businesses of the Village of Elk Grove
Village, the Inspectional Services Division shall inspect all buildings in the
Village for compliance with the fire safety codes of the Village on a regular
basis. The Division S.O.P. shall establish the process by which the Division
shall inspect and issue citations for failure to comply with the Village fire
safety codes.
SECTION 113
VIOLATIONS
   113.4 is amended to read as follows:
113.4 Violation penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation, punishable by a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00)
dollars nor more than seven hundred and fifty ($750.00) dollars, plus all legal
fees and all costs caused by enforcement. Such fees and costs shall include,
but not be limited to, staff costs of inspection or re-inspection, legal fees,
and staff cost of enforcement. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
SECTION 114
STOP WORK ORDER
   114.4 is amended to read as follows:
114.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars or more than seven hundred and fifty
($750.00) dollars.
SECTION 115
UNSAFE STRUCTURES OR EQUIPMENT
   115.8 is added to read as follows:
115.8 Fire watch. Where conditions exist that are deemed hazardous to life and
property by the fire code official, a fire watch shall be implemented. The Fire
Code Official reserves the right to require a third-party agency to perform the
fire watch. The third-party agency shall invoice the owner/occupant directly
for the services rendered. The Fire Code Official shall determine the number of
personnel required and the duration necessary for the fire watch. A fee of
seventy-five ($75.00) dollars per hour for each Village of Elk Grove Village
personnel assigned to the fire watch shall be charged. Conditions that may
require a fire watch shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Newly constructed building opened for occupancy before completion of
the fire safety equipment and supervision;
   B.   Building in which the fire safety equipment and supervision are placed
out-of-service and will not be restored within two (2) hours;
   C.   Building with an occupancy load greater than the posted numbers;
   D.   Special programs or events where there will be space for standing room
over the seating area and the exits will handle both seated and standing
people; and
   E.   Situations where the fire load is greater than the normal day-to-day
operation.
SECTION 202
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
   Board of Trustees is added to read as follows:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The corporate authorities of the Village of Elk Grove
Village.
   Building Code is added to read as follows:
BUILDING CODE: The Building Code and its amendments as adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   Certificate of Use and Occupancy is added to read as follows:
CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY: The certificate issued by the Building
Official which, permits the use of a building or tenant space in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and which certifies compliance with
the provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building or tenant space
in its several parts together with any special stipulations or conditions of
the building permit.
   Change of Occupancy is amended to read as follows:
CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY: The change in purpose for which a building or part thereof
is used or intended to be used including a change in tenant or tenant space.
   Change of Use is added to read as follows:
CHANGE OF USE: An alteration by change of use in a building or tenant space
heretofore existing to a new use group which imposes other special provisions
of law governing building construction, equipment or means of egress.
   Fire Code Official is amended to read as follows:
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL: The designated Fire Marshal of the Village of Elk Grove
Village and or their subordinates.
   Fire Load is added to read as follows:
FIRE LOAD: A measurement of the amount of heat energy that could be released by
the complete combustion of all combustible materials in a given area.
   Fire Watch is amended to read as follows:
FIRE WATCH: A temporary measure intended to ensure continuous and systematic
surveillance of a building or portion thereof by one or more qualified
personnel or the Village of Elk Grove Village Fire Department, for the purpose
of identifying and controlling fire hazards, detecting early signs of unwanted
fire, and raising an alarm of fire and notifying the fire department.
   Fireworks, 1.4G is amended to read as follows:
FIREWORKS, 1.4G: (Formerly known as Class C, Common Fireworks.) Small fireworks
devices including hand-held wire sparklers containing restricted amounts of
pyrotechnic composition designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion. Such 1.4G fireworks which comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the DOT for Fireworks, UN
0336, and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as set forth in CPSC 16
CFR: Parts 1500 and 1507 are not explosive materials for the purpose of this
code.
SECTION 301
GENERAL
   301.3 is added to read as follows:
301.3 Whenever and wherever, within the jurisdiction of the Fire Department
boundaries a condition is found in any building, lot, or premises, that
requires correction or removal for the protection of the occupants or the
public, the Fire Code Official, shall order such conditions corrected or
removed and the owner or occupant of such buildings, lots, or premises shall
comply with such order. The appropriate jurisdictions Building Official and
Fire Inspector will refer to the most applicable building and fire code
sections of the current code adopted.
SECTION 307
OPEN BURNING, RECREATIONAL FIRES, AND PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES
   307.4.1 is amended to read as follows:
307.4.1 Bonfires. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet of a
structure or combustible material. Conditions that could cause said fire to
spread to within 50 feet of a structure or combustible material shall be
eliminated before ignition. Bonfires shall not exceed four (4) feet in diameter
and/or sixteen (16) square feet. Bonfires may only contain cut, natural wood.
   307.4.2 is amended to read as follows:
307.4.2 Recreational fires. Recreational fires shall not be conducted within
twenty-five (25) feet of a structure or combustible material. Conditions that
could cause a fire to spread within twenty-five (25) feet of a structure or
combustible material shall be eliminated before ignition. Recreation fires
shall be contained in a manufactured, outdoor fireplace/pit. Containers for
recreational fires shall be no greater than thirty (30") inches in diameter
and/or 6.25 square feet. Recreational fires may only contain cut, natural wood
that will fit within the confines of the container.
SECTION 308
OPEN FLAMES
   308.1.10.6 is added to read as follows:
308.1.10.6 Open-flame cooking devices: Charcoal burners and other open-flame
cooking devices shall not be operated on combustible balconies or within ten
(10) feet of combustible construction.
Exceptions:
   1.   One-and two-family dwellings where one of the following apply:
      (1)   Where buildings, balconies, and decks are protected by an automatic
sprinkler system.
      (2)   LP-gas cooking devices having LP-gas containers with a water
capacity not greater than 2 ½ pounds [nominal 1 pound (0.454 kg) LP-gas
capacity].
      (3)   When an open-flame cooking device is attended by an adult and a
minimum 10 lb. dry chemical (class B or class ABC) fire extinguisher is located
within ten (10) feet of the cooking device.
      (4)   When an LP-gas fueled cooking device is attended by an adult and a
minimum 10 lb. dry chemical (class B or class ABC) fire extinguisher is located
within ten (10) feet of the cooking device.
SECTION 309
POWERED INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS AND EQUIPMENT
   309.5 is amended to read as follows:
309.5 Fire extinguishers. Battery charging areas shall be provided with a fire
extinguisher complying with section 906 having a 4-A:60-B:C rating within
twenty (20) feet of the battery charger.
SECTION 311
VACANT PREMISES
   311.2.2 is amended to read as follows:
311.2.2 Fire Protection. Fire alarms, fire pumps, fire suppression, and
standpipe systems; along with fire extinguishers shall be maintained in an
operable condition at all times.
   Exceptions to 311.2.2 are deleted.
SECTION 312
VEHICLE IMPACT PROTECTION
   312.4 is added to read as follows:
312.4 Gas Meter Protection: Where deemed necessary by the Fire Code Official,
guards shall be installed around gas meters to protect against vehicular
damage.
   312.5 is added to read as follows:
312.5 Electrical Vehicle Charger Protection: Where deemed necessary by the Fire
Code Official, guards shall be installed around electrical vehicle chargers to
protect against vehicular damage.
SECTION 315
GENERAL STORAGE
   315.3.5 is added to read as follows:
315.3.5 Storage. In a non-sprinklered building, the maximum height of storage
or rack storage is twelve (12’) feet. Aisles shall be no less than eight (8’)
feet wide. All racking uprights must be marked with reflective tape (of a
contrasting color from the uprights) at twelve (12’) feet to indicate the
maximum storage height.
   315.3.6 is added to read as follows:
315.3.6 Group A Plastics. In a non-sprinklered building, storage of group A
plastics cannot exceed five (5’) feet in height.
   315.3.7 is added to read as follows:
315.3.7 Tire Storage. In a non-sprinklered building, storage of tires is not
allowed in any quantity or arrangement. Storage of one or more tires within the
building will require a fire suppression system. Storage of tires on the
exterior of the property must be approved by the Fire Code Official prior to
allowance.
SECTION 320
LITHIUM-ION AND LITHIUM-METAL BATTERY STORAGE
   320.4.4 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4 Storage of Lithium Metal or Lithium-Ion Batteries: Areas associated
with the collection or storage of lithium metal or lithium-ion batteries shall
comply with this Section.
Exceptions:
   1.   Areas within a facility that are operated in accordance with procedures
that provide for the state of charge of the lithium metal or lithium-ion
batteries to be 30 (30%) percent or less. Procedures and test reports
documenting how the 30 (30%) percent or less state of charge is established and
how fire protection levels are determined shall be provided to the fire code
official for review and approval
   2.   Areas where fire and fault condition testing conducted or witnessed and
reported by an approved testing laboratory is provided showing that a fire
involving the batteries in storage will be limited to the design area of an
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with NFPA 13 and will not
adversely impact occupant egress from the building or adversely impact adjacent
stored materials or the building structure.
   3.   Batteries in original retail packaging that are rated at 300 watt-hours
or less for lithium-ion batteries or contain 25 grams or less of lithium metal
for lithium metal batteries.
   320.4.4.1 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.1 Collection. All areas located indoors in any occupancy where used
lithium metal or lithium-ion batteries are collected from employees or the
public shall be provided with open-top noncombustible containers or containers
designed to preclude the release of contents resulting from battery thermal
runaway or containers approved for battery collection activities.
   1.   Containers shall not exceed 7.5 ft3 (0.21 m3) in size. (Or 55 gallons
(113.6 L)
   2.   Containers shall have a minimum of three (3') feet of open space from
other battery collection containers and combustible materials and shall be
located a minimum of five (5') feet from exits from the room, space, or
building.
   3.   Where combustible materials are located within the space between
collection containers, the containers shall be spaced a minimum ten (10') feet
apart.
   320.4.4.2 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.2 Collection and Storage Locations. Batteries collected or stored other
than those in collection containers complying with Section 315.8.1 shall be
stored in accordance with one or more of the following methods provided for in
accordance with one or more of the following methods. Battery terminals shall
be protected either through battery design methods or a protective packaging
method to prevent short circuits of the battery.
1.   In rooms or spaces separated from the remainder of the building areas by
fire barriers with a 3-hour fire resistance rating and with horizontal
assemblies with a 3-hour fire resistance rating constructed in accordance with
the local building code. The room or space shall be protected by a radiant
energy detection system installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and shall be
protected by an automatic sprinkler system designed and installed in accordance
with NFPA 13.
2.   Batteries shall be permitted to be stored in approved prefabricated
portable buildings or containers that are constructed with 3-hour fire
resistance ratings and provided with a radiant-energy detection system
installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and an approved automatic fire suppression
system installed in accordance with NFPA 13.
3.   In metal drums storage containers with batteries separated from each other
by vermiculite or other approved material packaged to prevent damage that could
lead to a thermal event or in containers approved for battery collection and
storage activities.
3.1.   Each area containing such metal drums or approved containers shall not
exceed 900 ft2 (83.61 m2) in area and shall be separated from other battery
storage areas by a minimum of ten (10') feet.
3.2.   The collection and storage area shall be protected by a radiant-energy
detection system installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and an approved automatic
fire suppression system installed in accordance with NFPA 13.
4.   In containers approved for use in transportation or approved by the fire
code official that will prevent an event from propagating beyond the container.
4.1.   Each area containing the approved transportation containers shall not
exceed 900 ft2 (83.61 m2) in area and shall be separated from other battery
storage areas by a minimum of ten (10') feet.
4.2.   The storage area shall be protected by a radiant energy detection system
installed in accordance with NFPA 72 and an approved automatic fire suppression
system installed in accordance with NFPA 13.
   320.4.4.3 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.3 Prevention and Mitigation. A plan that provides for the prevention of
fire incidents and includes early detection mitigation measures shall be
provided to the Fire Code Official for review and approval. The owner is
required to file the plan annually.
   320.4.4.4 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.4 Explosion Control. The potential for a deflagration involving the
off-gassing of flammable gases during a thermal runaway shall be analyzed and
explosion protection shall be installed in accordance with Section 911 if the
potential exists. A written hazard analysis prepared by a fire protection
engineer shall be submitted to the Fire Code Official for review and approval.
   320.4.4.5 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.5 Outdoor Storage Location. Outdoor storage locations for lithium metal
or lithium-ion batteries shall comply with the following:
1.   Individual pile sizes shall be limited to 900 ft2 (83.61 m2) with a
storage height not to exceed ten (10') feet in an area separated from other
piles by ten (10') feet.
2.   Batteries shall be stored in non-combustible containers or approved
containers designed for storage of the batteries.
3.   Piles located outdoors shall be separated by a minimum twenty (20') feet
from the following exposures:
      3.1.   Lot lines
      3.2.   Public ways
      3.3.   Buildings
      3.4.   Other storage
      3.5.   Hazardous materials
      3.6.   Other exposure hazards
Exception:
Clearances shall be permitted to be reduced to three (3') feet when a 3-hour
freestanding fire barrier, suitable for exterior use, and extending five (5')
feet above and extending five (5') feet beyond the physical boundary of the
pile is provided to protect the exposure.
   320.4.4.6 is added to read as follows:
320.4.4.6 Weather protection. Where weather protection is provided for
sheltering outdoor battery storage areas, such areas shall be considered
outdoor storage where the weather protection structure complies with 1 through
3.
   1.   Walls shall not obstruct more than one side of the structure
      Exception:
Walls shall be permitted to obstruct portions of multiple sides of the
structure, provided that the obstructed area is not greater than twenty-five
(25%) percent of the structure’s perimeter.
   2.   The distance from the structure to buildings, lot lines, public ways or
means of egress to a public way shall be not less than the distance required
for an outside hazardous material storage or use area without weather
protection.
   3.   The overhead structure shall be of approved noncombustible construction
with a maximum area of 1,600 square feet (148.6 m2).
SECTION 503
FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROADS
   503.1 is amended to read as follows:
503.1 Where required. Fire apparatus access roads shall be provided and
maintained in accordance with sections 503.1.1 through 503.1.3. The Fire Code
Official shall require and designate public and private fire lanes as deemed
necessary for effective and efficient operation of fire apparatus.
   Exceptions to 503.1.1 are deleted.
   503.1.1.1 is added to read:
503.1.1.1 Public/Private access for fire apparatus. Public or private access,
for all occupancy classifications with the exception of R-3 shall be provided
for fire apparatus when the building is three stories or higher. Fire lane
access for an aerial ladder and/or mechanically elevated mechanism shall be
required to cover three-quarters of all exterior building walls.
   503.2.1 is amended to read:
503.2.1 Dimensions. The minimum width of fire lanes shall be twenty (20) feet
and an inside radius of forty-five (45) feet shall be provided to accommodate
vehicles when turning. The fire lanes shall be placed twenty-five (25) feet
from the building to the edge of the fire lane or thirty-five (35) feet to the
center of the fire lane to the building. Fire lanes shall have an unobstructed
vertical clearance of not less than fifteen (15) feet. The road shall be
constructed with the capability to handle 80,000 pounds (weight of fire
apparatus).
   503.2.4 is amended to read:
503.2.4 Turning radius. Fire lane turn around shall have an inside radius of
forty-five (45) feet and shall have a driving area width of twenty-seven (27)
feet in order to accommodate vehicles.
   503.2.5 is amended to read as follows:
503.2.5 Dead ends. Dead end fire apparatus access roads in excess of one
hundred and fifty (150) feet in length shall be provided with an approved area
for turning around fire apparatus. All cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum
diameter of ninety (90) feet.
   503.3 is amended to read as follows:
503.3 Marking. All fire lanes shall be posted with the appropriate signage.
Where required by the fire code official, approved signs or other approved
notices or markings that include the words “NO PARKING—FIRE LANE” shall be
provided for fire apparatus access roads to identify such roads or prohibit the
obstruction thereof. The means by which fire lanes are designated shall be
maintained in a clean and legible condition at all times and be replaced or
repaired when necessary to provide adequate visibility.
SECTION 505
PREMISES IDENTIFICATION
   505.1 is amended to read as follows:
505.1 Address Identification. New and existing buildings and tenant spaces
shall have approved address numbers, building numbers or approved building
identification placed in a position that is plainly legible and visible from
the street or road fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with
their background. Addresses on glass shall be white. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Exterior numbers shall be a minimum of six
(6) inches high. Interior tenant spaces shall be a minimum of four (4) inch
high numbers. Where access is by means of a private road and the building
cannot be viewed from public way, a monument, pole, or other sign or means
shall be used to identify the structure.
SECTION 506
KEY BOXES
   506.1 is amended to read as follows:
506.1 Where required. All newly constructed buildings or tenant spaces are
required to install an approved key box in an accessible location approved by
the Fire Code Official and shall contain keys and other items necessary to
provide the fire department access to the building at locked points of ingress
and egress whether on the interior or exterior of such building, to include
building systems, controls and devices, such as but not limited to: Fire alarm
systems, automatic fire sprinkler systems, elevator controls, electrical rooms
and mechanical rooms.
Exception: Key boxes are not required for single-family detached dwellings or
townhomes.
   506.1.3 is added to read as follows:
506.1.3 Type of key box. The type of key box approved for use by the Village of
Elk Grove Village is the Knox box brand key vault/rapid entry system. The
Village of Elk Grove Village shall be in complete control of key box and rapid
entry system authorization and operation. The Village of Elk Grove Village
shall not be required to purchase or sell any key box or rapid entry system
products. The size of the required Knox box will be based on the number of keys
to be secured in the box and will be at the discretion of the Fire Code
Official.
   506.1.4 is added to read as follows:
506.1.4 Location and number of key boxes: The installation location of the key
boxes shall be approved by the Fire Code Official. The key boxes shall be
mounted at a height of five (5) feet above the finished floor. The total number
of key boxes required shall be determined by the Fire Code Official.
   506.1.5 is added to read as follows:
506.1.5 Outside Audible/Visual Appliance. An outside weatherproof clear lens
audible/visual appliance shall be installed over all key boxes. All outside
appliances shall be seventy-five (75) candela minimum and shall be non-
silenceable.
SECTION 507
FIRE PROTECTION WATER SUPPLIES
   507.2.3 is added to read as follows:
507.2.3 Fire Hydrant Water Supply. The fire hydrants shall be on a domestic
water system. The fire hydrant water supply shall not be supplied by the fire
protection system(s).
   507.5.1 is amended to read as follows:
507.5.1 Where required. Fire hydrants shall be located along a fire apparatus
access road so that no portion of a building or facility will be more than
three hundred (300) feet of travel from any hydrant. Additional hydrants and
mains shall be provided where required by the Fire Code Official.
   Exceptions to 507.5.1 are deleted.
   507.5.1.1 is amended to read as follows:
507.5.1.1 Hydrant for standpipe systems. Buildings equipped with a standpipe
system installed in accordance with Section 905 shall have a fire hydrant
within 50 feet of the fire department connections.
   Exceptions to 507.5.1.1 are deleted.
   507.5.1.2 is added to read as follows:
507.5.1.2 Hydrant for fire department connections. Buildings equipped with a
fire sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903 shall have a
fire hydrant within fifty (50') feet of the fire department connections. The
fire hydrant shall be located no more than twenty (20') feet from the curb
line. The fire department connection shall be located no more than fifty (50')
feet from the curb line.
   507.5.7 is added to read as follows:
507.5.7 Fire hydrant installation. Fire hydrants shall be installed so that:
   1.   Access: Access to fire hydrants shall be by any approved roadway as
specified by this code.
   2.   Distance to Roadways: Fire hydrants shall be located approximately
twenty (20') feet from roadways.
   3.   Pumper Outlet Direction: Each fire hydrant shall have the pumper
(steamer) connection facing the primary roadway and shall be accessible so that
a connection can be made between the hydrant and the apparatus located in the
street with twenty-five (25') feet of suction hose.
   4.   Hydrant Outlet Location: Fire hydrant outlets shall be a minimum of
eighteen (18") inches and no more than thirty-six (36") inches above the
finished grade.
   5.   Hydrant Type: Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies
shall be of a type acceptable to the Village of Elk Grove Village.
SECTION 509
FIRE PROTECTION AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION AND ACCESS
   509.3 is added to read as follows:
509.3 Access to fire equipment: In multiple single-family dwellings where there
is no common area, fire alarm panels and sprinkler system valves shall be
located in a room accessible only to Village Fire Department personnel from the
exterior of the building. The fire department shall have access at any time to
such equipment without entering an individual dwelling unit.
   509.4 is added to read as follows:
509.4 Fire pump and/or automatic sprinkler system riser rooms: Access to the
fire pump and/or automatic sprinkler system riser rooms shall be on the main
level of discharge and be accessible from the exterior and interior of the
building.
   509.5 is added to read as follows:
509.5 Rooms containing fire protection control equipment. Rooms containing fire
protection control equipment shall be provided with direct access from the
exterior and interior of the building. All new and existing entrance doors
shall bear a sign on the exterior of the door with four inch (4") high letters
indicating “FACP”, “Sprinkler Room”, “Fire Pump”. Additional signage may be
required in cases where the riser serves more than one (1) tenant. New and
existing rooms shall contain emergency lighting. Rooms designated as FACP,
Sprinkler Rooms, or Fire Pump Rooms shall not be used for any other purpose.
   509.6 is added to read as follows:
509.6 Riser Access. All new sprinkler risers and associated equipment shall be
located in a separate room with a minimum of one (1) hour fire resistant
construction.
SECTION 510
EMERGENCY RESPONDER COMMUNICATIONS ENHANCEMENT SYSTEMS
   Exceptions to 510.1 are deleted.
   510.1.1 is added to read as follows:
510.1.1 Radio Frequency Coverage for Police & Fire. Emergency responder
communications enhancement system (ERCES)systems shall support specific radio
frequency and bandwidths for the Police & Fire Department’s. Currently,
frequencies that need to be amplified are:
°   150.0000 MHZ to 174.0000 MHZ (VHF High Band)
°   800 MHZ public safety frequencies.
   510.1.2 is added to read as follows:
510.1.2 System Radio Frequencies. The emergency responder communications
enhancement system (ERCES) shall be capable of transmitting all public safety
radio frequencies assigned to the Village of Elk Grove Village and be capable
of using any modulation technology. Systems shall be capable of upgrade, to
allow for instances where the Village of Elk Grove Village changes or adds
system frequencies, in order to maintain radio system coverage as originally
designed.
   Section 511 is added to read as follows:
SECTION 511
EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION
   511.1 is added to read as follows:
511.1 Emergency notification. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner and/or owner representative to provide current contact persons and
telephone numbers of persons to be notified in case of an emergency involving
their property and/or building.
SECTION 604
ELEVATOR OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND FIRE SERVICE KEYS
   604.8 is added to read as follows:
604.8 Elevator phone. All required emergency elevator phones shall directly
dial the Village of Elk Grove Village’s Communications Center via the phone
number designated by the Fire Code Official
SECTION 606
COMMERCIAL COOKING EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEMS
   606.5 is added to read as follows:
606.5 Hood system suppression. All hood and duct extinguishing systems shall
comply with the U.L. Standard # 300 and be supervised by the buildings fire
alarm system.
SECTION 901
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS - GENERAL
   901.6.3 is amended to read as follows:
901.6.3 Records. All contractors who perform inspections, testing, and/or
maintenance required by referenced standards of the International Fire Code
shall submit the records of said inspections, test, and/or maintenance to the
Village in such form and such method approved by the Fire Code Official. The
owner of the subject property being inspected or tested shall be additionally
responsible for its contractor who performs the test or inspections to submit
same to the Village in such form and such method approved by the Fire Code
Official.
SECTION 902
DEFINITIONS
   Total Area is added to read as follows:
TOTAL AREA. For purposes of calculating total square feet and fire areas, the
total floor area includes mezzanines and basements contained within the
surrounding exterior walls of the building on all floors and levels, which are
added together. The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building including roof overhangs, extensions, and all enclosed extensions,
which are also added to the calculation. Areas of a building not provided with
surrounding walls shall be included within the building area if such areas are
included within the horizontal projection of the roof or floor above. Interior
walls, including fire walls, and party walls, shall not be considered as walls
which divide a structure into two or more separate buildings, but a structure
containing such interior walls shall be considered as one building for the
purpose of this section.
SECTION 903
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
   903.2.1.1 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.1 Group A-1: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group A-1 occupancies.
   903.2.1.2 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.2 Group A-2: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group A-2 occupancies.
   903.2.1.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.3 Group A-3: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group A-3 occupancies.
   903.2.1.4 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.4 Group A-4: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group A-4 occupancies.
   903.2.1.5 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.5 Group A5-: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group A5- occupancies.
   903.2.1.6 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.1.6 Assembly occupancies on roofs: Where an occupied roof has an assembly
occupancy with an occupant load exceeding 0 for Group A-2 and 0 for other Group
A occupancies, all floors between the occupied roof and the level of exit
discharge shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance
with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
   Exceptions to 903.2.1.6 are deleted.
   903.2.1.8 is added to read as follows:
903.2.1.8 All Group A Occupancies: Quick response sprinklers shall be provided
throughout all Group A occupancies.
   903.2.2.1 is added to read as follows:
903.2.2 Group B: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
Group B occupancies.
   Sections 903.2.2.1 and 903.2.2.2 are deleted.
   903.2.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.3 Group E: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
Group E occupancies.
   Exceptions to 903.2.3 are deleted.
   903.2.4 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.4 Group F-1: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group F-1 occupancies. All speculative warehouse buildings with a ceiling
roof height of twenty-five (25') feet or greater must be protected with an ESFR
fire sprinkler system or a hydraulically calculated system for class IV
commodities with rack storage calculated to the greatest storage height.
   903.2.5 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.5 Group H: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
Group H occupancies.
   903.2.5.1 is deleted.
   903.2.5.2 is deleted.
   Table 903.2.5.2 is deleted.
   903.2.5.3 is deleted.
   Exceptions to 903.2.6 are deleted.
   903.2.7 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.7 Group M: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
Group M occupancies.
   903.2.8 is amended to read as follows
903.2.8 Group R: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
Group R occupancies.
   903.2.9 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.9 Group S-1: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all Group S-1 occupancies. All speculative warehouse buildings with a ceiling
roof height of twenty-five (25') feet or greater must be protected with an ESFR
fire sprinkler system or a hydraulically calculated system for class IV
commodities with rack storage calculated to the greatest storage height.
   903.2.9.1 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.9.1 Repair garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
throughout all repair garage occupancies.
   903.2.9.2 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.9.2 Bulk storage of tires. Storage of ten (10) or more tires within a
building will require an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
903.3.1.1. Storage of tires on the exterior of the property must be reviewed
and approved by the Fire Code Official.
   903.2.9.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.9.3 Group S-1 distilled spirits or wine. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout all distilled spirits or wine storage buildings.
   903.2.9.4 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.9.4 Group S-1 upholstered furniture and mattresses. An automatic
sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all upholstered furniture and
mattress storage buildings.
   Exceptions to 903.2.9.4 are deleted.
   903.2.10 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.10 Group S-2. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
all buildings classified as a parking garage.
   Exceptions to 903.2.10 are deleted.
   903.2.10.1 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.10.1 Commercial parking garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout all buildings used for storage of motor vehicles,
commercial trucks, trailers, transport container units, or buses.
   903.2.10.3 is added to read as follows:
903.2.10.3 Hazard category for a commercial parking garage. The design density
hazard classification for parking structures shall be an Extra Hazard (Group
2).
   903.2.11 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.11 Specific building areas and hazards. An automatic sprinkler system
shall be provided throughout all Group U occupancies.
   903.2.11.1 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.11.1 Stories without openings. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
installed throughout all stories without openings.
   903.2.11.1.2 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.11.1.2 Openings on one side only. Where openings in a story are provided
on only one side and the opposite wall of such story is more than seventy-five
(75’) feet from such openings, the story shall be equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system.
   903.2.11.1.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.2.11.1.3 Basements. All basements shall be provided throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system.
   903.2.13 is added to read as follows:
903.2.13 Mandatory retrofit: All existing occupancies in Table 903.2.11.6 that
do not have automatic sprinkler systems installed in accordance with Section
903 of the building code shall retrofit the occupancy with a fire suppression
system.
   903.3.1 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.1 Standards: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be designed and installed
in accordance with sections 903.3.1.1 through 903.3.1.3. All sprinkler piping
material is to be approved metallic piping. Plastic pipe is not allowed for
sprinkler pipe material except for a R-3 use group
   Section 903.3.1.1.2 Bathrooms is deleted.
   903.3.1.1.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.1.1.3 Lithium-Ion or lithium metal batteries. Where automatic sprinkler
systems are required by this code for areas containing lithium-ion or lithium-
metal batteries, Early Suppression Fast Response Sprinkler (ESFR) heads shall
be required.
   903.3.1.2 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.1.2 NFPA 13R Sprinkler systems. Automatic sprinkler systems in Group R
occupancies up to and including three stories in height shall be installed in
accordance with NFPA 13R.
   903.3.1.3 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D Sprinkler systems: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be
installed throughout one-and two-family dwellings and townhouses in accordance
with NFPA 13D.
   903.3.1.3.1 is added to read as follows:
903.3.1.3.1 NFPA 13D Sprinkler systems requirements: Automatic sprinkler
systems shall be installed in all bathrooms and attached garages no matter the
size.
   903.3.5 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.5 Water supplies. Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall
comply with this section and the standards referenced in Section 903.3.1. The
potable water supply shall be protected against backflow in accordance with the
requirements of this section and the currently adopted versions of the
International Plumbing Code and Illinois Plumbing Code.
   903.3.5.3 is added to read as follows:
903.3.5.3 Safety factor. Hydraulically calculated sprinkler systems shall
maintain a minimum of ten (10%) percent or five (5) pounds per square inch
cushion (whichever is greater) between the seasonal low water supply and the
total sprinkler demand. The total sprinkler demand shall include the sprinkler
demand and the hose stream demand. The flow data used in these calculations
shall be no more than one year old.
   903.3.5.4 is added to read as follows:
903.3.5.4 Multi-tenant occupancy. When an automatic sprinkler system is
installed in a multi-tenant building, each tenant shall have its own sprinkler
supply line off the main or riser with its own water flow switch and control
valve.
   903.3.7 is amended to read as follows:
903.3.7 Fire department connections. With respect to hydrants, driveways,
buildings, and landscaping, fire department connections shall be so located
that fire apparatus and hose connected to supply the system will not obstruct
access to the buildings for other fire apparatus. Fire department connections
shall be located within fifty (50') feet of a fire hydrant at a location
approved by the Fire Code Official. Fire Department connections shall be
located where they will be visible from the public street or other location
approved by the Fire Code Official. They shall be located so that immediate
access can be made by the Fire Department. Fire department connections shall
not be obstructed by fences, bushes, trees, walls, or similar objects. A ten-
inch (10") water flow alarm bell and blue lens audio/visual appliance shall be
located above the connection. A six-inch (6") water flow alarm bell shall be
located inside the building by the sprinkler riser. The location of the fire
department connection shall be on the street side of the building or in a
method approved by the Fire Code Official. The fire department connection shall
consist of one five (5) inch Storz coupling on a thirty (30) degree elbow
mounted between thirty-six (36") inches and forty-eight (48") inches above the
finished floor. The fire department connection shall be located no more than
fifty (50') feet from the curb line. The fire department connection shall not
be located within a delayed access location.
   903.3.8.5.1 is added to read as follows:
903.3.8.5.1 Hydraulic Calculations: By each hydraulically calculated area, on
each drawing, provide a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
   903.3.9.1 is added to read as follows:
903.3.9.1 Multiple-Story Buildings: In multiple-story buildings, provide floor
control valves with water flow switches for each floor. No birdcage systems are
allowed.
   903.4.2 is amended to read as follows:
903.4.2 Electronic supervision. Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be
distinctly different and shall be monitored by a fire alarm, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72.
   Exceptions to 903.4.1 are deleted.
   903.4.3.1 is added to read as follows:
903.4.3.1 Sprinkler Alarms: Approved combined audible/visual appliance(s) shall
be connected to every fire protection suppression system. Such alarm appliance
(s) shall be activated by the system operation. The outside audible/visual
appliance(s) shall be latching. Appliances shall be located in the following
locations:
   1.   Single-tenant buildings on the outside wall above the main entrance
(Clear Lens)
   2.   Multi-tenant buildings on the outside wall above each main/unit
entrance (Clear Lens)
   3.   Multi-tenant buildings on the outside wall above the FACP main entrance
(Red Lens) (Visual Only)
   4.   Within all buildings with fire suppression systems on the outside wall
above each Fire Department Connection (Blue Lens)
   5.   Within all buildings throughout all areas, and floors inside the
building.
   903.4.3.2 is added to read as follows:
903.4.3.2 Floor Plan: A diagram showing the area served by each system and/or
control valves shall be submitted for review and approval to the Fire Code
Official. The same diagram shall be placed adjacent to the fire sprinkler
system risers.
   903.5.1. is added to read as follows:
903.5.1 Inspectors Test Vales: Fire sprinkler system inspectors test valves
shall be accessible at all times and located no more than six (6) feet above
the finished floor. On multiple riser systems test valves shall be marked as to
which riser and area it tests and shall be located at the furthest point of the
system.
   903.6.1 is added to read as follows:
903.6.1 Additions: Additions to any building or structure equal to or exceeding
fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area of the original building
construction, as identified on the permit records and construction drawings
approved by the Village when the structure was first constructed, shall require
the installation of an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout the
entire existing and proposed building or structure in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.12, and the International Existing
Building Code (IEBC).
   903.6.2 is added to read as follows:
903.6.2 High-Hazard Group H: Any change in Use and/or Occupancy which
reclassifies a building or structure or portion thereof to a High-Hazard Group
H occupancy shall require the installation of an approved automatic sprinkler
system throughout the entire existing and proposed building or structure in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.12, and the
International Existing Building Code (IEBC).
   903.6.3 is added to read as follows:
903.6.3 Change of use and/or occupancy in existing buildings and structures:
Any change in Use and/or Occupancy which reclassifies a building or structure
or portion thereof to a motor vehicle storage; motor vehicle repair garages;
lumber storage; pallet storage; bulk storage of tires; self-service storage
facility; grow, processing, and extraction facilities; or in accordance with
the International Existing Building Code (IEBC); occupancy shall require the
installation of an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout the entire
existing and proposed building or structure in accordance with the provisions
of Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.12, and the IEBC.
   903.6.4 is added to read as follows:
903.6.4 Maintained in Operation: Approved automatic sprinkler systems in
existing buildings or structures shall be maintained in operational condition
and shall be extended into any new construction notwithstanding any change in
use which could eliminate the need for sprinkler protection.
SECTION 904
ALTERNATIVE AUTOMATIC FIRE-EXTINGUISHING SYSTEMS
   904.3.5 is amended to read as follows:
904.3.5 Monitoring: All automatic fire extinguishing systems shall be monitored
by a fire alarm, in a method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance
with NFPA 72.
   Section 905 is amended to read as follows:
SECTION 905
STANDPIPE/HOSE VALVE SYSTEMS
   905.1 is amended to read as follows:
905.1 General: Standpipes/Hose Valve systems required by this section shall be
installed within one (1) floor of the highest point of construction having
secured decking as flooring, within five (5') feet of each exterior door, and
no more than three hundred (300') feet of travel from each other. Standpipes/
Hose Valve systems shall be supplied off adjacent system(s) or their own
independent system(s).
   905.2.1 is added to read as follows:
905.2.1 Standpipe/Hose Valve System Design: Standpipe/Hose Valve systems in
connection with an approved hydraulically calculated sprinkler system shall
maintain a minimum of ten (10) percent pressure cushion between the seasonal
low water supply and the total standpipe demand.
   Exceptions to 905.3 are deleted.
   905.3.1 is amended to read as follows:
905.3.1 Height: Class I standpipe/hose valve systems shall be installed
throughout all buildings. All standpipe/hose valve systems shall be automatic
wet systems.
   Exceptions to 905.3.1 are deleted.
   905.3.1.1 is added to read as follows:
905.3.1.1 Building area: Class I standpipe/hose valve systems shall be
installed in all buildings where any portion of the building’s interior area is
more than one hundred and fifty (150) feet of travel, vertically, and
horizontally, from the main entrance of the building of fire department vehicle
access. Where the most remote portion of a floor or story is more than one
hundred and fifty (150) feet from a hose connection, the Fire Code Official may
require that additional hose connections be provided in approved locations. A
manual-wet class I standpipe/hose valve system may be approved by the Fire Code
Official.
   905.3.1.2 is added to read as follows:
905.3.1.2: System Required: Buildings required by section 905.3 to be equipped
with standpipe systems shall be provided with wet standpipe/hose valve systems
that comply with section 905.3.1. Required standpipe/hose valve systems shall
be located within five (5) feet of each exit door.
   905.3.1.3 is added to read as follows:
905.3.1.3 High Rise Buildings: High rise building standpipe/hose valve systems
shall be designed for a minimum one hundred (100) psi at five hundred (500) gpm
to the highest most remote standpipe outlet with a minimum two hundred and
fifty (250) gpm for each additional standpipe riser. The total shall not be
required to exceed one thousand two hundred and fifty (1,250) gpm.
   905.3.1.4 is added to read as follows:
905.3.1.4 Open Parking Structures: Detached open parking structures shall be
provided with a dry standpipe/hose valve system without a connection to the
public water main. Attached open parking structures shall be provided with an
automatic wet or automatic dry standpipe system.
SECTION 906
PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
   906.1 is amended to read as follows:
906.1 Where required. Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in all of
the following locations new and existing Group A, B, E, F, H, I, M, R-1, R-2,
R-4, S and U occupancies.
   The exceptions to 906.1 are deleted.
   906.3 is amended to read as follows:
906.3 Size and distribution: The minimum size fire extinguisher for use in all
occupancy groups shall be 4A60BC. All other applications shall be in accordance
with the provisions of NFPA 10.
   906.4.1.1 is added to read as follows:
906.4.1.1 Wet chemical fire suppression system: Areas with a wet chemical fire
suppression system shall have a minimum of one six (6) liter wet chemical
potassium-based fire extinguisher within the kitchen area in addition to other
required extinguishers. Additional extinguishers may be required by the Fire
Code Official.
   906.5.1 is added to read as follows:
906.5.1 Location: Fire extinguishers shall be located within five (5') feet of
each exit door. All other areas shall have fire extinguishers installed in
accordance with NFPA 10.
SECTION 907
FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS
   907.1.4 is added to read as follows:
907.1.4 Materials and contents information. Construction documents for fire
protection systems permit shall include information on the contents, the
occupancy, the location and arrangement of the structure, the contents
involved, the exposure to any hazard, the extent of the system coverage, the
suppression system design criteria, the supply, and extinguishing agents, the
location of any standpipes, and the location and method an operation of any
detection and alarm devices.
   907.1.5 is added to read as follows:
907.1.5 Underwriters Laboratory (UL) certificates: All Fire Alarm systems
installed within the jurisdiction of the Village of Elk Grove Village shall be
Underwriters Laboratory Certified as Remote Station type systems. This
Underwriters Laboratory certification shall remain in place for as long as a
fire alarm system is required to be installed on the property. This shall also
include those systems that monitor automatic sprinkler systems. All fire alarm
systems shall be monitored wirelessly by a UL listed central station with
runner service or by wireless radios that transmit signals directly to
Northwest Central Dispatch System (NWCDS) via contracted fire alarm vendor,
Johnson Controls Inc. Hardwired telephone lines are not allowed.
   907.1.6 is added to read as follows:
907.1.6 Fire alarm installation requirements: In order to install a fire alarm
system in the Village of Elk Grove Village the installer must be a Licensed
Fire Alarm Installer or a licensed electrician. Prior to acceptance testing,
the alarm contractor that will be issuing the certificate for the Protected
Property shall provide a current copy of the Alarm Contractor’s Certificate of
Compliance to the Village of Elk Grove Village’s Inspectional Services
Division. A copy of the Protected Property’s Remote Station UL Certificate
shall be provided to the Village of Elk Grove Village Inspectional Services
Division upon completion of the acceptance test.
   907.1.7 is added to read as follows:
907.1.7 Fire Alarm Control Panel Type: The fire alarm control panel shall be an
addressable fire alarm control panel capable of performing all necessary
functions. The fire alarm control panel shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72.
   907.1.8 is added to read as follows:
907.1.8 Fire Alarm Electrical Metallic Tubing: Where electrical metallic tubing
(conduit) is required by NFPA 72, the electrical metallic tubing (conduit)
shall be in red in color.
   907.2 is amended to read as follows:
907.2 Where required-new buildings and structures: An approved manual,
automatic or manual and automatic fire alarm system installed and maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this code and NFPA 72 shall be provided in
new buildings and structures in accordance with Section 907.2.1 through
907.2.23 and provide occupant notification in accordance with section 907.10,
unless other requirements are provided by another section of this code. All
fire alarm systems shall be an addressable type; and the fire alarm control
panel or fully functional annunciator panel with no pass codes shall be
installed within ten (10) feet of the main entrance or in a location approved
by the Fire Code Official. Multi-tenant buildings will be “ring by tenant” and
shall include a weatherproof clear outside combined audible/visual device(s)
over the entrance to each tenant space as directed by the Fire Code Official.
The main entrance to the fire alarm control panel shall also include a
weatherproof red outside visual device over the entrance. All outside strobes
shall be seventy-five (75) candela minimum. Where automatic sprinkler
protection installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 is
provided and connected to the building fire alarm system, automatic heat
detection required by this section shall not be required.
   Exceptions to 907.2 are deleted.
   907.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.1 Group A: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in all Group A
occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.1 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.1.1 are deleted.
   907.2.2 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.2 Group B: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group B
occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.2 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.2.1 are deleted.
   907.2.3 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.3 Group E: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group E
occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.3 are deleted.
   907.2.4 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.4 Group F: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group F
occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.4 are deleted.
   907.2.5 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.5 Group H: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group H
occupancies.
   907.2.6 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.6 Group I: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group I-
1 occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.6 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.6.1 are deleted.
   907.2.6.2 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.6.2 Group I-2: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group I-
2 occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.6.2 are deleted.
   907.2.6.3 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.6.3 Group I-3: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group I-
3 occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.6.3.3 are deleted.
   907.2.7 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.7 Group M: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group M.
   Exceptions to 907.2.7.1 are deleted.
   907.2.8 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.8 Group R-1: A manual fire alarm system and an automatic smoke detection
system shall be installed, in a method approved by the Fire Code Official in
accordance with NFPA 72 in all Group R-1 occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.8.1 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.8.2 are deleted.
   907.2.9.1 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.9.1 Group R-2: An automatic fire alarm system shall be installed, in a
method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in all
Group R-2 occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.9.1 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.9.3 are deleted.
   907.2.10 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.10 Group S: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group S
occupancies.
   Exceptions to 907.2.10.1 are deleted.
   Exceptions to 907.2.11.6 are deleted.
   907.2.13 is amended to read as follows:
907.2.13 High-rise buildings: Buildings with a floor used for human occupancy
located more than 60 feet above the lowest level of fire department vehicle
access shall be provided with an automatic fire alarm system, pressurized
stairwells, fire command center, fire department communication center and an
emergency voice/alarm communication system in accordance with Section
907.2.12.2
   907.2.24 is added to read as follows:
907.2.24 Groups R-3, R-4: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a
method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72.
   907.2.25 is added to read as follows:
907.2.25 Group R-3, R-4: An automatic fire alarm system shall be installed, in
a method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72.
   907.2.26 is added to read as follows:
907.2.26 Group U: A manual fire alarm system shall be installed, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72 in Group S
occupancies.
   907.3.1 is amended to read as follows:
907.3.1 Duct smoke detectors: Duct smoke detectors shall be connected to the
building’s fire alarm control panel when a fire alarm system is provided.
Activation of a duct smoke detector shall initiate a visible and audible fire
signal and shut down the individual units. Duct smoke detectors shall not be
used as a substitute for required open area detection. Duct smoke detectors
shall be required in all air handling units 2000 CFM or greater. All test
switches shall be labeled and installed in a proximate area near the Fire Alarm
panel or as determined by the Fire Code Official. All duct detectors should be
labeled in correlation with the HVAC units and clearly marked on the inside
ceiling, visible from the floor. All rooftop units will be visibly marked.
   Exceptions to 907.3.1 are deleted.
   907.3.3.1 is added to read as follows:
907.3.3.1 Elevator emergency telephones: Elevator emergency telephones shall be
connected to the Village of Elk Grove Village Emergency Communications Center.
   907.6.2 is amended to read as follows:
907.6.2 Power supply: The primary and secondary power supply for the fire alarm
system shall be provided in accordance with NFPA 72. The secondary supply shall
be equipped with a sixty (60) hour battery. The secondary supply shall be
equipped with a battery capable of sufficient amperage to fully operate the
fire system for sixty (60) hours in the case of AC voltage loss.
   907.6.4 is amended to read as follows:
907.6.4 Zones: A separate zone by floor shall be provided for the following
types of alarm-initiating devices where provided:
A.   Detection devices.
B.   Sprinkler water flow alarms.
C.   Manual fire alarm boxes.
D.   Each tenant space in multi-tenant occupancies, and
E.   Other approved types of automatic fire detection devices or suppression
systems.
   907.6.5.1 is added to read as follows:
907.6.5.1 FACP Access: The fire alarm panel capable of performing all necessary
functions shall be easily accessible and visibly located within the sprinkler
riser room and/or fire pump room or in a method approved by the Fire Code
Official.
   907.6.5.2 is added to read as follows:
907.6.5.2 FAAP Access: The fire alarm annunciator panel capable of performing
all necessary functions shall be easily accessible and visibly located within
ten (10') feet from the entrance into the building, unit, or fire pump and/or
sprinkler riser room(s).
   907.6.5.3 is added to read as follows:
907.6.5.3 FACP/FAAP Instructions: All new and existing fire alarm control
panels shall be provided with written operating instructions to perform the
necessary features of the fire alarm panel(s). The operating instructions, a
complete fire alarm zone map, and other applicable information shall be framed
and mounted within one foot (1') of the fire alarm control panels. Building
contact names and phone numbers shall be provided inside the alarm panel.
   907.8.5 is added to read as follows:
907.8.5 Records of completion: A record of completion in accordance with NFPA
72 verifying that the system has been installed with the approved plans and
specifications shall be provided. A system schematic showing all devices and
components of the alarm system. Shall be provided on a minimum eight-and-one-
half (8.5) by eleven (11) inch sheet or in a method approved by the Fire Code
Official.
   907.9 is amended to read as follows:
907.9 Where required in existing buildings and structures: All existing
commercial, industrial, and multi-tenant occupancy structures within the
Village of Elk Grove Village shall have an approved working fire alarm system
that is monitored, in a method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance
with NFPA 72. The master fire alarm panel in facilities/buildings that are
rented or leased are the responsibility of the building owner to maintain and
service. Any building that is modified or where a change of use and/or
occupancy occurs shall comply with this requirement before any use of occupancy
will be granted. All requirements shall comply with section 907.2.
   907.11 is added to read as follows:
907.11 Non-required systems: All non-required systems which are supervised
shall use equipment listed for that particular fire alarm system. Non-required
systems shall be installed in accordance with Section 907 and/or, in a method
approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with NFPA 72. Nonrequired
systems shall be maintained in good working order.
SECTION 909
SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS
   909.20.6 is added to read as follows:
909.20.6 In garage settings where a carbon monoxide detection device controls
the activation of an exhaust system this system must shut down upon the
activation the fire detection and/or suppression systems. This will have a
manual override control which will be installed under direction of the Fire
Code Official.
SECTION 912
FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS
   912.1.1 is added to read as follows:
912.1.1 Arrangement: Fire Department connections shall be arranged in such a
manner that the use of any one water sprinkler connection will serve all
sprinklers, and the use of any one standpipe will serve all standpipes within
the building.
   912.1.2 is added to read as follows:
912.1.2 Storz connection: The location of the fire department connection shall
be approved by the Fire Code Official. The fire department connection shall
consist of one five (5") inch Storz coupling on a thirty (30) degree elbow
downturn mounted between thirty-six (36") inches and forty-eight (48") inches
above the finished floor.
   912.2 is amended to read as follows:
912.2 Location: With respect to hydrants, driveways, buildings, and
landscaping, fire department connections shall be so located that fire
apparatus and hose connected to supply the system will not obstruct access to
the buildings for other fire apparatus. Fire department connections shall be
located within fifty (50') feet of a fire hydrant at a location approved by the
code official. Fire Department connections shall be located where they will be
visible from the public street or other location approved by the Fire Code
Official. They shall be located so that immediate access can be made by the
Fire Department. Fire Department connections shall not be obstructed by fences,
bushes, trees, walls, or similar objects. A ten-inch (10") water flow alarm
bell and blue illuminated identification device shall be located above the
connection. A six-inch (6") water flow alarm bell shall be located inside the
building by the sprinkler riser. The location of the fire department connection
shall be on the street side of the building or in a method approved by the Fire
Code Official. The fire department connection shall consist of one five-inch
(5") Storz coupling on a 30-degree elbow mounted between thirty-six inches(36)
and forty-eight inches (48") above the finished floor. The FDC shall be located
no more than fifty feet (50') from the curb line. The fire department
connection shall not be located within a delayed access location. Fences,
gates, trees, shrubs, or other landscaping materials shall not be installed to
prohibit access to the fire department connection. A Fire Hydrant shall be
located within fifty feet (50') of any fire department sprinkler and/or
standpipe connection as determined by the code official. The fire hydrant shall
be located no more than twenty feet (20') from the curb line.
   912.6 is amended to read as follows:
912.6 Backflow protection: The potable water supply to automatic sprinkler and
standpipe systems shall be protected against backflow as required by the most
recently adopted versions of the International Plumbing Code and the Illinois
Plumbing Code.
SECTION 913
FIRE PUMPS
   913.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
913.2.1 Protection of Fire Pump Rooms: Where provided, rooms containing fire
pumps shall be separated from the remainder of the building by a minimum of two
(2) hours of fire resistant construction. Fire pump room access shall be
located on the main level of discharge and shall be from both the exterior and
interior of the building.
   913.4 is amended to read as follows:
913.4 Valve supervision: Where provided, the fire pump suction, discharge, and
bypass valves, and the isolation valves on the backflow prevention device or
assembly shall be supervised by a fire alarm system directly connected, in a
method approved by the Fire Code Official in accordance with the provisions of
NFPA 72.
   913.4.2 is added to read as follows:
913.4.2 Fire Pump Activation: Fire pumps shall transmit a full fire signal upon
activation, all fire pumps shall have a ten (10) minute shut down timer.
SECTION 914
FIRE PROTECTION BASED ON SPECIAL DETAILED REQUIREMENTS OF USE AND OCCUPANCY
   The exceptions to 914.2.1 are deleted.
   The exceptions to 914.3.1 are deleted.
   The exceptions to 914.4.1 are deleted.
   The exceptions to 914.7.1 are deleted.
SECTION 1003
GENERAL MEANS OF EGRESS
   1003.1 is amended to read as follows:
1003.1 Applicability: The general requirements specified in this section shall
apply to all three elements of the means of egress system, in addition to those
specific requirements for the exit access, the exit and the exit discharge
detailed elsewhere in this chapter. The provisions of the International
Existing Building Code 2024 shall not be used to eliminate the installation
requirements for exit signs and means of egress illumination systems.
SECTION 1008
MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION
   The exceptions to 1,2,3 to 1008.2 are deleted.
   1008.3 is amended to read as follows:
1008.3 Emergency power for illumination. The power supply for means of egress
illumination shall normally be provided by the premise’s electrical supply.
In the event of power supply failure, an emergency system shall automatically
illuminate all of the following areas:
1.   Exit access corridors, passageways, and aisles in rooms and spaces, which
require two or more means of egress.
2.   Exit access corridors, ramps, and exit stairways located in buildings
required to have two or more exits.
3.   Interior exit discharge elements, in buildings required to have two or
more exits.
4.   The portion of the exterior exit discharge immediately adjacent to exit
discharge doorways in buildings required to have two or more exits.
5.   Conference rooms, training rooms, break or lunch rooms, and restrooms that
accommodate more than one occupant.
SECTION 1010
DOORS, GATES AND TURNSTILES
   The exceptions to 1010.1.1 are deleted.
Exceptions:
1.   Places of detention or restraint.
2.   Where egress doors are used in pairs, approved automatic flush bolts shall
be permitted to be used, provided that the door leaf having the automatic flush
bolts has no doorknob or surface mounted hardware. The unlatching of any leaf
shall not require more than one operation.
3.   Doors from individual dwelling units and guestrooms of Group R occupancies
having an occupant load of 10 or less are permitted to be equipped with a night
latch, dead bolt or security chain, provided such devices are accessible from
the inside without the use of a key or tool.
SECTION 1013
EXIT SIGNS
   1013.2 is amended to read as follows:
1013.2 Low-level exit signs. The installation of low-level exit signs to
supplement regular exit signs shall be placed in all new occupancies to include
places of assembly, hotels, or other buildings subject to transient occupancy
and semi-permanent occupancy such as an apartment house, and as deemed
necessary by the Fire Code Official. Such exit signs may be approved
luminescent, photo luminescent, self-luminous, or self-illuminated types. They
are not intended to replace standard exit signs but are designed as a
supplementary aid for a building occupant seeking egress in smoke-filled
environment at a location that is the last to become obscured. Existing
facilities shall be required to have this signage within two (2) years.
Such signs shall be located near the floor level in addition to those signs
required for doors or corridors. The bottom of the sign shall be not less than
ten (10") inches, but not more that eighteen (18") inches above the floor. For
exit doors, the sign shall be mounted on or adjacent to the door with the
nearest edge of the sign within four (4") inches of the door frame. Photo
luminescent signs may be used in place of externally illuminated signs.
SECTION 1023
INTERIOR EXIT STAIRWAYS AND RAMPS
   1023.9.2 is added to read as follows:
1023.9.2 Floor landing and stairwell signs. Floor landing and stairwell signs
shall be required in all enclosed stairwells on every floor per locations
specified in 1025.1 and all existing hotels, apartments, and nursing homes.
Signs shall also be mounted on the wall adjacent to the door at not less than
five (5) feet above the finished floor indicating floor level and stairwell
designation.
SECTION 1028
EXIT DISCHARGE
   1028.5 is amended to read as follows:
1028.5 Access to public way: From each grade floor exit from a building there
shall be provided a hard surface area, a minimum of forty-eight inches (48") in
width centered on that door, extending from the door to a property line
adjoining a public street.
SECTION 1106
REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR OPERATIONS
   1106.2 is added to read as follows:
1106.2 Barrier protection. Physical barriers shall consist of IDOT certified
concrete barriers. Barriers shall be provided to protect the area where
construction type fuel tanks are established.
SECTION 1205
SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER SYSTEMS
   Exceptions to 1205.2 are deleted.
   1205.2.1.1.1 is added to read as follows:
1205.2.1.1.1 No hazards in pathways or setbacks. Pathways and setbacks shall be
located in areas with no obstructions, such as vent pipes, conduit or
mechanical equipment.
   1205.2.1.2 is amended to read as follows:
1205.2.1.2 Setbacks at ridge. For photovoltaic arrays occupying thirty-three
(33%) percent or less of the plan view total roof area, a setback of not less
than twenty-four (24") inches wide is required on both sides of a horizontal
ridge. For photovoltaic arrays occupying more than thirty-three (33%) percent
of the plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than forty-eight (48")
inches wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
   1205.2.1.3 is amended to read as follows:
1205.2.1.3 Alternative setbacks at ridge. Where an automatic sprinkler system
is installed within the dwelling in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3, setbacks
at the ridge shall conform to one of the following:
3.   For photovoltaic arrays occupying sixty-six (66%) percent or less of the
plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than twenty-four (24") inches
wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
4.   For photovoltaic arrays occupying more than sixty-six (66%) percent of the
plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than forty-eight (48") inches
wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
   1205.2.1.4 is added to read as follows:
1205.2.1.4 Roof Pathway access labeled on the ground. Roof pathway access shall
be labeled on the ground and shall be Visible at night (Reflective) where the
roof access is greater than ten (10') feet.
   1205.2.2.1 is added to read as follows:
1205.2.2.1 Roof pathway access. Any pathways shall not be above windows or
doors.
SECTION 1207
ELECTRICAL ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS (ESS)
   Exceptions 1,2,3 to 1207.5.1 are deleted.
   1207.5.1.1 is added to read as follows:
1207.5.1.1 Lithium-ion battery storage and equipment. Lithium-ion batteries
shall be separated from each other by a minimum of forty-eight inches (48").
   The exceptions to 1207.5.2 are deleted.
   1207.6.5.2 is added to read as follows:
1207.6.5.2 Approvals. Devices designed to detect the thermal runaway of
lithium-ion battery storage system containing a flammable or combustible liquid
shall be listed in accordance with UL 2075, Gas and Vapor Detectors and
Sensors.
   1207.6.5.3 is added to read as follows:
1207.6.5.3 Performance. The thermal runaway detection system shall activate
upon detection of gas vapors produced by flammable or combustible liquid in a
lithium-ion battery storage system at the start of a thermal runaway event.
Upon detection of a thermal runaway event the detection system shall shutdown
the ESS rack releasing flammable or combustible gas vapors and transmit a
supervisory fire alarm signal. Detection of a thermal runaway event shall
activate the mechanical ventilation when it is provided as method of explosion
control.
Thermal runaway detectors shall operate independently of the ESS Energy Storage
Management System.
   1207.6.5.4 is added to read as follows:
1207.6.5.4 Annunciation. The thermal runaway detection system shall be capable
of identifying the ESS rack where thermal runaway occurred.
SECTION 3104
TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT TENTS AND MEMBRANE STRUCTURES
   3104.2.1 is added to read as follows:
3104.2.1 Outdoor Assembly Event Tents or Membrane Structures. Tents or Membrane
Structures twelve (12') feet x twelve (12') feet or greater shall comply with
Section 3104.2.
SECTION 3105
TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT STRUCTURES
   3105.8 is amended to read as follows:
3105.8 Portable fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers shall be a
4A60BC extinguisher.
SECTION 3306
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS AND DEVICES
   3306.7 is added to read as follows:
3306.7 Fire Extinguishers for roofing operations: Fire extinguishers shall be
installed in accordance with section 906. There shall be not less than one
multi-purpose portable fire extinguisher with a minimum 4A60BC on the roof
being covered or repaired.
SECTION 5001
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS – GENERAL PROVISIONS
   5001.3.3.1 is amended to read as follows:
5001.3.3.1 Properties of hazardous materials. All buildings, and/or tenant
spaces containing hazardous materials shall provide a Knox box document storage
cabinet for placement of the SDS sheets. The box shall be large enough to
accommodate all information. It shall be mounted at five (5') feet above the
finished floor, and shall be located in a spot that is approved by the Fire
Code Official.
SECTION 5601
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS - GENERAL
   Exceptions to 5601.1.3 are deleted.
SECTION 5602
EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS - DEFINITIONS
   Fireworks, 1.4G is amended to read as follows:
Fireworks, 1.4G (Formerly known as Class C, Common Fireworks.) Small fireworks
devices including hand-held wire sparklers containing restricted amounts of
pyrotechnic composition designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion. Such 1.4G fireworks which comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the DOT for Fireworks, UN
0336, and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as set forth in CPSC 16
CFR: Parts 1500 and 1507 are not explosive materials for the purpose of this
code.
SECTION 5608
FIREWORKS DISPLAY
   5608.1 is amended to read as follows:
5608.1 General. The display of fireworks, including proximate audience displays
and pyrotechnic special effects in motion picture, television, theatrical, and
group entertainment productions, shall comply with this chapter, Office of the
State Fire Marshal, and the most recent versions of NFPA 1123 and/or NFPA 1126.
   5608.1.1 is added to read as follows:
5608.1.1 General requirements for all pyrotechnic/consumer fireworks displays.
All pyrotechnic fireworks displays shall conform to the Fireworks Use Act (425
ILCS 35).
   5608.2.1 is amended to read as follows:
5608.2.1 Outdoor fireworks displays. In addition to the requirements of Section
403, permit applications for outdoor fireworks shall include a diagram of the
location at which the display will be conducted including the site from which
fireworks will be discharged; the location of buildings, highways, overhead
obstructions and utilities; and the lines behind which the audience will be
restrained. All outdoor fireworks displays shall be electronically fired from
an approved electronic firing unit.
   5608.3.1 is added to read as follows:
5608.3.1 Pyrotechnic operator and licensing rules. Any person, company, entity,
association, or corporation who distributes, provides display services or
supervises a pyrotechnic display within the Village of Elk Grove Village must
be licensed according to the Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator Licensing Act
(225 ILCS 227).
   5608.8.1 is added to read as follows:
5608.8.1 Fire department supervision of fireworks displays. All outside public
fireworks displays are required to have an Elk Grove Village Fire Department
standby, to be determined by the Fire Chief or his/her designee. Fire
department expenses incurred by this standby will be billed to the host of the
display. Local governmental agencies may be exempt from this fee.
   5608.11 is added to read as follows:
5608.11 Retail display and sale. It shall be unlawful to sell, store, or
advertise for sale, Division 1.4G, 1.3G & 1.4S fireworks within the boundaries
of the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   5608.12 is added to read as follows:
5608.12 Consumer fireworks. Consumer fireworks (1.4G) as defined by the
Fireworks Use Act (445 ILCS 35) shall not be manufactured, stored, sold retail
or wholesale or utilized within the boundaries of the Village of Elk Grove
Village along with the following unregulated items: sparklers of all sizes and
types and smoke devices.
SECTION 5609
TEMPORARY STORAGE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS
   Section 5609 is deleted in its entirety.
   Appendices A, B, C, E, F and G are deleted.
   Revise all listed NFPA standards in IBC Chapter 35 and IFC Chapter 80 to
include the latest edition available as of the effective date of the adoption
of the 2024 IBC and IFC.
   Attachment A is added to read as follows:
   Attachment A
REFERENCED APPENDIX, CODES, AND STANDARDS: The appendixes, codes, and standards
referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in Chapter 80 and such
codes and standards shall be considered part of the requirements of this code
to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur
between the provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the most
stringent provision shall apply.
The following codes and editions listed are to be adopted in their entirety:
NFPA    10      2022
13         2022
13R         2022
13D         2022
14         2022
15         2022
16         2019
20         2022
24         2022
25         2023
70         2023
72         2022
96         2024
1123         2022
1124         2022
§ 5-3-3 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Director of Community Development, in collaboration with the Fire Chief,
may modify any provision of the Fire Code upon application in writing within
thirty (30) days from the date of an order by the Inspectional Services
Division submitted by the owner or lessee or their duly authorized agent when
there are practical difficulties in carrying out the strict letter of the Code;
provided, that the spirit of the Code shall be observed and public safety
secured. The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Director of Community Development shall be entered upon the
records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant
and to the Village Manager.
§ 5-3-4 ACCESS TO STRUCTURES.
   A.   A Knox box shall be installed on all buildings having an automatic fire
alarm or fire suppression system that is supervised by a listed supervising
agency and/or in those buildings which contain a passenger elevator.
   B.   Keys shall be provided to allow access to all areas of the building
necessary to mitigate any foreseen emergency condition the Fire Department may
be called upon to protect. This includes, but is not limited to, keys to unlock
all fire systems control devices, elevator equipment rooms, electrical rooms,
storage rooms and other areas required by the fire official.
   C.   All required keys shall be labeled as to what they serve.
   D.   In areas which utilize other methods of security instead of keyed
locks, sufficient information and/or equipment shall be provided in the Knox
box for Fire Department use. This includes, but is not limited to, card keys,
security codes, etc.
   E.   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to notify the Fire
Department if there are any changes with the building or structure that would
require the contents of the Knox box to be modified.
   F.   All required Knox boxes shall be located as required by the fire
official.
   G.   A sufficient number of Knox boxes shall be provided as deemed necessary
by the fire official.
      1.   Multiple Tenants: A single Knox box may be provided to serve
multiple tenants provided the Knox box can be installed in a location to
accommodate Fire Department operations and the Knox box is large enough to
accommodate all keys for each tenant space.
      2.   Signage: Signage shall be provided above each knox box serving
multiple tenants. The signage shall be one inch (1") contrasting numbers and
identify the tenant space served by each Knox box.
   H.   All new residential condominiums shall provide a Knox box of sufficient
size to accommodate keys for each unit. The Knox box shall be installed at a
location approved by the Fire Department.
§ 5-3-5 JURISDICTION OF CODE.
   The jurisdiction of the Fire Code shall include all property and structures
within the Village corporate limits, and within areas that the Village provides
contractual fire protection services.
§ 5-3-6 INSPECTIONS.
   The Fire Chief or their designated agent may make such inspections on
property or premises within the Village as are deemed necessary to enforce the
provisions of the Fire Code. If, upon such initial inspection, violations of
the Fire Code are discovered, the inspector shall give the owner, tenant or
occupant an inspection report listing said violations and setting the date in
which said violations shall be remedied or abated. If the violations are
classified as minor in nature, the inspector, in their sole discretion, may
issue a corrective action report. In such case, the owner or occupant need only
make the necessary repairs or corrections as listed and certify same in writing
to the inspector in the time and in the manner set forth in the report. No
charge will be assessed for compliance in this manner since a reinspection is
not required.
   If, on the other hand, the violation is such that the inspector determines a
reinspection is necessary or if the owner or occupant has not returned the
certified corrected report above set forth within the designated time period,
then the inspector shall cause a reinspection of the property to determine
whether there is compliance with the Code. If it is determined that a violation
or violations continue to exist, the owner, tenant or occupant, as the case may
be, shall be assessed a fifty dollar ($50.00) reinspection fee for the initial
reinspection unless there are circumstances which exist, to the satisfaction of
the inspector, justifying the delay in the compliance. Should further
reinspections be required, additional reinspection fees shall be charged as
follows:
 
Second reinspection          $100.00
Third reinspection           $150.00
Fourth or more reinspections $500.00
 
   In addition to any such reinspection fee, the inspector may file an
ordinance violation complaint with the Housing Court of the 3rd Municipal
District of the Circuit Court of Cook County listing the initial inspection
report.
§ 5-3-7 PREVENTABLE FALSE ALARMS; FEES.
   Owners of fire protection systems that transmit false alarms are subject to
a preventable false alarm response fee should their fire alarm system transmit
a preventable false alarm. “Preventable false alarms” are defined as those
alarms that are caused by the careless and negligent acts of individuals within
a protected structure who cause an alarm to be transmitted as a result of such
careless or negligent act and/or who fail to follow the notification provisions
of this Code with respect to notifying the department of a repair, disconnect,
installation of a new system or such other act or modification which would
likely lead to a false alarm being signaled and thus cause an unnecessary Fire
Department response. The preventable response fees are as follows:
 
Number of Preventable False Alarms Response Fee
1                                  $0.00 (warning to be issued)
2 through 4                        $350.00
5 through 7                        $450.00
8 or more                          $600.00
 
§ 5-3-8 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation or failure to
comply occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 4: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
5-4-1   Definitions
   
5-4-2   Proclamation of Emergency; Procedures
   
5-4-3   Effect on Powers of Village Authorities
   
5-4-4   Penalty
§ 5-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Chapter the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   CIVIL EMERGENCY:
      A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate limits of
the Village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of
property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect
the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the Village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
§ 5-4-2 PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY; PROCEDURES.
   A.   Emergency Declared: Whenever an emergency, as defined by Section
5-2-2 of this Chapter, exists, the Mayor shall proclaim its existence by means
of a written declaration. Said declaration shall be signed by the Mayor, under
oath, and contain the following:
      1.   A statement to the effect that a civil emergency, as defined by this
Chapter, does exist;
      2.   Set forth the facts supporting such findings;
      3.   A declaration of the nature of the emergency and their reasons for
their action;
      4.   A declaration that an emergency does exist. Such statement shall be
promptly filed with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Curfew: After the proclaiming of a civil emergency by the Mayor, the
Mayor may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
Village as a whole, as they deem advisable, and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as they deem necessary in the interest of the public safety
and welfare.
   C.   Powers of Mayor: After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor
may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the
following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all liquor stores and establishments, including
taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of
intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted;
      2.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
Wholesaler or Retailer;
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      4.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
      5.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   D.   Effect of Emergency Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized
shall be effective for a period of forty-eight (48) hours unless sooner
terminated by the Mayor but, in no event, shall continue later than the
adjournment of the first meeting of the Mayor and Board of Trustees after the
state of emergency is declared. The Mayor shall have the power to reproclaim
the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each forty-eight (48) hour
period during the time said civil emergency exists.
   E.   Notice of Emergency Proclamation: Upon issuance of the proclamation
authorized, the Chief of Police shall notify the news media of the Village and
shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation, declaring the existence of
the emergency, to be posted in three (3) prominent places.
§ 5-4-3 EFFECT ON POWERS OF VILLAGE AUTHORITIES.
   Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Village Code giving powers to the Police and Fire
Departments, but shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in
effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village.
§ 5-4-4 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter or executive order
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the Village and
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00).
CHAPTER 5: FIRE AND AMBULANCE SERVICES
Section
   
5-5-1   Fire and Ambulance Service/Rates
§ 5-5-1 FIRE AND AMBULANCE SERVICE/RATES.
   A.   Territory Service Provided; Application of Fire Prevention Regulations:
The Village shall hereby provide fire and ambulance service to all incorporated
areas of Elk Grove Village and to unincorporated areas eligible for fire and
ambulance service by contract with the Village, and areas subject to coverage
per a mutual aid agreement, according to those rates hereinafter provided.
   All rules, requirements, conditions and terms presently in force relating to
fire service within the Village contained in Chapter 3 of this Title shall be
in full force and effect in those areas outside the Village limits under the
provisions of this Section.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the services provided in this Chapter
and the payment therefor shall be assessed to and be the responsibility of the
owner, tenant, user or the party or entity in possession or control of the
premises receiving fire service, notwithstanding whether the service rendered
is to the physical premises, or to any person, guest, invitee, employee or
other individual or individuals requiring fire or ambulance service while on
the premises or abutting property or parking area.
   B.   Rates Established:
      1.   Rates For Ambulance Service: Rates for ambulance service to Elk
Grove residents and all non-residents shall be one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) plus a mileage fee equal to the distance traveled of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per mile, which amount shall be invoiced to the
medical insurance and/or liability insurance provider of the individual being
transported.
      2.   Rates for Firefighting Apparatus Service:
         a.   Non-Contracted – Non-Resident Rate: The rate for those non-
resident individuals who have not previously contracted with the Village for
firefighting apparatus service to Busse Woods Forest Preserve and Interstate
290 shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00) per fire apparatus vehicle per call.
         b.   Rates for Contracted Firefighting Apparatus Service:
            (1)   The contract service rate for homeowners’ association units,
fire district areas and individual homeowners shall be one hundred sixty seven
dollars ($167.00) per year per home.
            (2)   The contract service rate for commercial or industrial
structures shall be two hundred and nine dollars ($209.00) per year per major
or principal structure as determined by the Fire Chief.
            (3)   Beginning November 1, 2025, the aforementioned rates will
increase annually by the Chicago area consumer price index as published by the
U.S. Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics from the business period
between January of the previous year and January of the contract year. The rate
increases shall be no less than three percent (3%) and no more than five
percent (5%).
   C.   Payment of Fees:
      1.   Fees for contracts to homeowners’ associations or fire district
areas shall be payable semiannually at due dates as agreed upon by the Village
Manager and the individual district or association.
      2.   Contract service fees shall be paid fully in advance of the contract
date.
   D.   Exemption from Provisions: This Section shall not apply to those areas
in which mutual aid fire agreements are in effect.
CHAPTER 6: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
5-6-1   Fireworks
   
5-6-2   Storage of Explosives
   
5-6-3   Penalties
§ 5-6-1 FIREWORKS.
   A.   Fireworks Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell, store, discharge or set off any
fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the Village, except in
connection with public exhibitions as herein provided.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, sell,
offer for sale or keep for the purpose of selling any fireworks in the Village
at any time.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture any fireworks in
the Village.
   B.   Public Fireworks Displays:
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: No public exhibition of fireworks or
pyrotechnics shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the
Mayor and Board of Trustees thirty (30) days before the time of such display.
The applicant shall reimburse the Village for the cost of fire protection
services during the inspection and monitoring of the fireworks. The Village may
require a deposit to cover the anticipated costs of providing the services.
      2.   Bond: No such permit shall be issued unless the applicant therefor
has filed with the Village Clerk a public liability bond or policy bond in the
sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned to pay any damage to
property or injury to persons that may result or accrue from the storage,
handling or display of such pyrotechnics.
      3.   Supervision: All such public displays shall be under the supervision
of a competent person and shall be superintended by the Chief of the Fire
Department or some member of the Fire Department assigned to this duty by the
Fire Chief.
      4.   Smoking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of
such public displays to smoke any lighted pipe, cigarette or cigar at any time
during which such public display is going on or in the vicinity of materials to
be used for such displays.
§ 5-6-2 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to keep or store in the Village:
      1.   Nitroglycerine – T.N.T.: Any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as T.N.T. in any quantities, excepting for medicinal or
laboratory purposes and for such purposes no more than one quarter (1/4) ounce
shall be stored in any one building or premises;
      2.   Dynamite: Any dynamite in excess of five (5) pounds on any one
premises or in any one building;
      3.   Gunpowder: Any black powder or gunpowder or guncotton in excess of
five (5) pounds on any one premises.
   B.   All explosives must be stored or kept in accordance with the rules of
the State Fire Marshal, subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 5-6-3 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 7: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
5-7-1   Hazardous Material Releases Prohibited
   
5-7-2   Definitions
   
5-7-3   Hazardous Material Responses; Cost Reimbursement
   
5-7-4   Due Date of Cost Reimbursement
   
5-7-5   Additional Remedies
   
5-7-6   Penalty
§ 5-7-1 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RELEASES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to release or cause to be released, burn
or cause to be burned, emit, spill or leak any material which constitutes a
“Hazardous Materials Incident”, as defined herein.
§ 5-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   EXPENSES TO THE VILLAGE: All costs and expenses of the Village incurred in
the response to and clean up or abatement of hazardous material releases or the
extinguishing of a fire involving hazardous materials including but not limited
to the following: actual labor costs of Village personnel involved in the clean
up or abatement of a hazardous material incident including workers’
compensation benefits, fringe benefit and administrative overhead or any other
medical expenses, immediate or long-term, of personnel exposed to the hazardous
material, cost of equipment operation, maintenance, repair or replacement; all
costs of material directly ordered by the Village involving hazardous material
abatement; the cost of any labor and materials expended through the retention
of other parties or entities to assist in the clean up and abatement, repair,
mitigation or remediation of a hazardous material incident or response thereto
including costs incurred by other municipalities or agencies who respond to the
hazardous materials incidents through mutual aid and automatic aid agreements.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT: The leakage, release, seepage or emission of
any substance or material, which, due to its form, concentration, quantity,
location or other characteristics is determined by the Fire Chief or their duly
authorized representative, based upon a reasonable degree of scientific
certainty, to pose an unreasonable and inordinate risk to the life, health or
safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment.
This includes but is not limited to, explosives, reactive, flammable and
combustible liquids, compressed gases, flammable and water reactive solids,
oxidizers and peroxides, poisons, radioactive materials, corrosives, wastes or
otherwise regulated materials, or any substance determined to be dangerous,
hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
   VILLAGE: Any department or division of the Village of Elk Grove Village.
§ 5-7-3 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSES; COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   The person in immediate control or possession of hazardous materials at a
hazardous materials incident, shall be responsible for reimbursement to the
Village for all “Expenses to the Village”, as defined herein, incurred by the
Village, including the response to and handling or clean up of any hazardous
materials. In addition, there shall be joint and several liability and
responsibility for reimbursement to the Village, including but not limited to,
the person or companies in immediate control of the hazardous materials, the
shipper, the manufacturer, the distributor, the transporter of the materials
involved or such other third parties who have caused or contributed to the
release of said hazardous materials. The fault of the entity in immediate
control or possession shall not be an issue in the attachment of this liability
or responsibility. For the purpose of this Section, the “repair” shall mean,
without exception, the return of the property to the condition that existed
immediately prior to the incident.
§ 5-7-4 DUE DATE OF COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   All costs reimbursements will be invoiced by the Finance Department of the
Village and shall be payable within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice.
Accounts which exceed the thirty (30) day limit may have interest charges
imposed at a rate to be approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village.
§ 5-7-5 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to relieve any party from any other
obligation or responsibilities that it might otherwise have under law to any
other agency or party.
§ 5-7-6 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00), or each offense plus all costs and expenses involved
or incurred by the Village in abating the consequences of such offense.
TITLE 6: POLICE DEPARTMENT; MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC; ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
   Chapter
      
1 .   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
2 .   VEHICLE LICENSES
      
3 .   GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
      
4 .   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
5 .   ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
      
6 .   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
7 .   OFFENSES RELATED TO MINORS
      
8 .   GAMBLING
      
9 .   ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN PROPERTY
      
10 .   NOISE CONTROL
      
11 .   REGULATION OF THE SALE AND USE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS
      
12 .   RESERVED
      
13 .   VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
CHAPTER 1: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
6-1-1   Department Established
   
6-1-2   Appointments, Promotions and Discharges
   
6-1-3   Chief of Police
   
6-1-4   Deputy Chief/Commander
   
6-1-5   Duties and Conduct of Department Members
   
6-1-6   Line of Duty
   
6-1-7   Serving Processes
   
6-1-8   Rules and Regulations
§ 6-1-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created and established a Police Department, an operating
department of the Village. The Police Department shall consist of such full-
time and part-time personnel and such other personnel as may be provided by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees. The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall, from time
to time, establish a list of authorized positions which shall be set forth in
the classification plan as referenced and established in Section
1-7-5 of this Code.
§ 6-1-2 APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS AND DISCHARGES.
   A.   Appointments and Promotions: Appointments to and promotions within the
Police Department for sworn personnel, other than to the Office of Chief of
Police and the positions of Deputy Chief and Commander, shall be made by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in accordance with the rules set forth
by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
   B.   Discharges: No police officer shall be discharged from the Department
except after a hearing on charges before the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners as provided by law; provided, that this shall not be construed as
affecting the power of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to appoint and remove
the Chief of Police.
   C.   Reduction in Work Force: Any reduction in the number of employees in
the Police Department, other than a discharge for cause as set forth in
Subsection B of this Section, shall be done in accordance with Section 2.6,
“Layoff Procedure”, of the Personnel Rules and Regulations of the Village.
§ 6-1-3 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
Police Chief. The Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent
of the Board of Trustees; provided, that if the person appointed Chief was at
the time of such promotion a member of the department, they shall retain their
status and rank while serving as Chief and shall revert to such status and rank
when their term as Chief has ended.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: The Chief of Police shall be keeper of the Village jail
(see also Subsection
1-4-5B of this Code) and shall have custody of all persons incarcerated
therein. The Chief or their designee shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the activities of the Police Department as may be required
by statute or ordinance. The Chief shall be responsible for the performance by
the Police Department of all its functions, and all persons who are members of
the department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
      2.   Custody of Stolen Property: The Chief of Police shall be custodian
of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the Village.
§ 6-1-4 DEPUTY CHIEF/COMMANDER.
   A.   Deputy Chief: There are created the position(s) of Deputy Chief who are
to be appointed by the Chief of Police with the approval of the Village
Manager. A Deputy Chief shall retain their rank and status while serving as
Deputy Chief and shall revert to such rank and status, or the position of
commander, if open, when their term of Deputy Chief has ended, as determined by
the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall designate one of the Deputy
Chiefs to serve in their absence. The Deputy Chief shall perform such duties
and assignments within their division and such other duties and assignments as
assigned by the Chief of Police.
   B.   Commander: There are created the position(s) of Commander, who are to
be appointed by the Chief of Police with the approval of the Village Manager. A
Commander shall retain their rank and status while serving as Commander and
shall revert to such rank and status when their term of command has ended, as
determined by the Chief of Police. The Commander shall perform such duties and
assignments as directed by the Chief of Police or any Deputy Chief of Police.
§ 6-1-5 DUTIES AND CONDUCT OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all ordinances of the Village, of all statutes effective in the
Village and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and to arrest
violators thereof. Every member of the Police Department is hereby declared to
be a conservator of the peace.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
themself in a proper and law abiding manner and to avoid the use of unnecessary
force.
§ 6-1-6 LINE OF DUTY.
   During the absence or inability of the Police Chief, the Deputy Police Chief
shall temporarily act in their stead. In the absence of both, the Village
Manager may designate an individual to temporarily perform the duties of the
Police Chief.
§ 6-1-7 SERVING PROCESSES.
   The Chief of Police may serve writs, summonses and other processes, but no
patrol officer shall serve any such summons or process except on the order of
the Chief of Police or of the Mayor.
§ 6-1-8 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
guidance of the members of the Department as they shall see fit, and rules
shall be binding on such members.
CHAPTER 2: VEHICLE LICENSES
Section
   
6-2-1   Definition
   
6-2-2   License Required
   
6-2-3   License Fees
   
6-2-4   Application for License; Issuance
   
6-2-5   Penalty
§ 6-2-1 DEFINITION.
   The term “motor vehicle”, as used in this Chapter, shall mean any vehicle
which is self-propelled and capable of transporting a person or persons or any
material or any permanently or temporarily affixed apparatus and clearly
intended for operation on highways.
§ 6-2-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every commercial or industrial owner or operator of a “motor vehicle”, as
defined herein, who has a business establishment within the Village, or is the
owner or operator of a motor vehicle, which vehicle:
   A.   Is registered to any business or commercial property within the
corporate limits of the Village; or
   B.   Is registered to another municipality, county, state or foreign
country, but is housed or sheltered for use on any public street within the
Village,
   shall pay each year to the Village Finance Department a license fee as
hereinafter set forth.
§ 6-2-3 LICENSE FEES.
   A.   Fees Established:
Antique vehicle                                                           $3.00
Dealer plate                                                              $25.00
Motor bicycle and scooter                                                 $20.00
(150 cc piston displacement or less)
Motorcycle                                                                $25.00
(over 150 cc piston displacement)
Passenger car                                                             $25.00
Recreational vehicle                                                      $30.00
School bus                                                                $60.00
Trucks – having the following gross weight, including the weight of the $50.00
vehicle and maximum load: Not more than 8,000 pounds
More than 8,000 pounds but less than 16,001 pounds                        $75.00
More than 16,000 pounds but less than 32,001 pounds                       $100.00
More than 32,000 pounds but less than 50,001 pounds                       $115.00
More than 50,000 pounds but less than 64,001 pounds                       $145.00
More than 64,001 pounds                                                   $155.00
 
   B.   Replacement License Sticker: Any person, firm or corporation whose
vehicle’s windshield has been destroyed and thereby damaging the license
sticker or whose vehicle has been replaced with a vehicle in the same fee
category within the same licensing year may obtain a replacement license
sticker by payment of a transfer fee of three dollars ($3.00) to the Finance
Department. If a vehicle is replaced by a vehicle in a higher fee category,
then the transfer fee shall be increased by the incremental amount of the
license fee. At no time will a transfer result in a refund of the original fee
paid. Any individual requesting a transfer shall provide such evidence as is
requested by the Finance Department showing proof of license fee payment within
the same licensing year.
   C.   Payment of Fee; Term; Nonpayment:
      1.   Annual Fee: The license fee shall be due and payable annually, by
August 1 of each year, and the license shall be for a one (1) year period. The
fee for a vehicle license purchased after September 1 of each year shall be the
established fee set forth in Subsection A of this Section plus a late payment
fee of an additional fifty percent (50%) of said established fee.
      2.   Nonpayment of Prior Year Vehicle License: Every owner or operator of
a motor vehicle who is required to purchase a vehicle license pursuant to this
Section shall be required to purchase said vehicle license every year in which
the vehicle meets the requirements of this Section. Any person, firm or
corporation who has failed to purchase a vehicle license in any one or more
preceding years prior to the purchase of the current vehicle license shall be
required to pay all prior delinquencies, plus penalty if applicable, before
being eligible to purchase the current year’s license.
§ 6-2-4 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   Each owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motor bicycle desiring a
license for such motor vehicle shall file an application with the Finance
Department setting forth the name and address of the applicant and a
description of the vehicle for which the license is desired. Upon payment of
the required fee, including any late payment if applicable, the Finance
Department shall issue or cause to be issued a license in the form of a
windshield sticker or such other approved identification which shall be firmly
fastened on the lower right hand side of the windshield.
§ 6-2-5 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine, the minimum fine being the amount of the
respective license fee and the maximum fine to be seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day a violation occurs or continues to exist.
CHAPTER 3: GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
Section
   
6-3-1   Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
   
6-3-2   Vehicle Motor Restrictions
   
6-3-3   Driving on Sidewalks, over Curbs or in Safety Zones; Responsibility for
Damage
   
6-3-4   Traffic on Boulevards
   
6-3-5   Golf Carts on Highways
   
6-3-6   Parking Regulations
   
6-3-6-1   General Parking Regulations
   
6-3-6-2   Time Limit Parking
   
6-3-6-3   Loading Zones
   
6-3-6-4   Snow Removal Operations
   
6-3-6-5   Trucks and Tractors
   
6-3-6-6   Parking Facilities for Persons with a Disability
   
6-3-6-7   Signs Posted
   
6-3-6-8   Parking and Storage of Oversized Recreational Vehicles
   
6-3-6-9   Nonrecreational Vehicles and Equipment
   
6-3-6-10   Oversized Vehicles in Private Commercial Parking Areas
   
6-3-6-11   Penalty
   
6-3-7   Electric Bicycle Regulations
   
6-3-8   Skateboards
   
6-3-9   Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
6-3-10   Motorized Skateboards/Motorized Scooters
   
6-3-11   Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
   
6-3-11-1   Definitions
   
6-3-11-2   Violations of Red Light Traffic Control Device
   
6-3-11-3   Defenses
   
6-3-11-4   Notice of Violation
   
6-3-11-5   Hearing
   
6-3-11-6   Contest by Mail
   
6-3-11-7   Final Determination
   
6-3-11-8   Notice of Determination of Liability
   
6-3-11-9   Notice of Final Determination
   
6-3-11-10   Petition to Set Aside Determination
   
6-3-11-11   Penalty
   
6-3-11-12   Confidentiality
   
6-3-11-13   Signage; Website Posting
   
6-3-12   Overweight and Oversized Vehicles
   
6-3-13   Permits Required for Overweight or Overdimension Vehicles
   
6-3-14   Spectator Activity at Street Races and Street Sideshows
§ 6-3-1 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Adopted Provisions: The following paragraphs and articles of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS, are hereby adopted for and as the
vehicle code of the Village:
Illinois Vehicle Code Description
Illinois
Vehicle  Description
Code
Chapter
1
Sections  
5/1-101  Definitions
through
5/1-220
Chapter
3         
Article  Original and renewal of registration
IV       Offenses against registration and certificate of title laws or revocation
Article  of registration or certificate of title
VII
Chapter
4         
Article  Abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicles
II
Chapter
6
Sections
5/6-100
through   
5/6-104  Driver’s license requirements
Section  Notice of change of address or name
5/6-116  Violation of license provisions
Sections Procedures for traffic violations
5/6-301
through
5/6-305
Section
5/6-308
Chapter
11
Except
5/11-501
 
and      Rules of the road
except   Persons under influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drug
5/11-    Suspension of driver’s license - statutory summary alcohol or other drug
501.1    related suspension - implied consent
        Driving on sidewalk
 
and
except
5/11-
1412.1
Chapter  Equipment of vehicles
12
Chapter   
13       Operation without certificate of safety attached - effective date of
Section  certificate
5/13-111
Chapter  Size, weight and load permits
15
 
   Any citation cited pursuant to the above and foregoing shall be designated
as set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code and prefixed by reference to this
Section.
§ 6-3-2 VEHICLE MOTOR RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Motor Size: Any vehicle having fifty (50) cc. piston displacement or
less is prohibited from operation on streets and public property in the
Village.
   B.   Weight: It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle
with a weight, including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic
law for driving on improved highways (625 ILCS 5/15-301) or with weight
distributed in a manner not conforming to such law; with the exception, that
trucks used exclusively for garbage or refuse disposal equipped with self-
compactors shall be permitted to have axle loads and gross weights thirty-three
percent (33%) above those limits provided for said vehicles by the state
traffic law, subject to the following limitations:
 
Single axles 22,000 pounds
Tandem axles 40,000 pounds
Gross weight 54,000 pounds
 
§ 6-3-3 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS, OVER CURBS OR IN SAFETY ZONES; RESPONSIBILITY FOR
DAMAGE.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to drive off
the paved portion of any roadway, upon or across any curb or sidewalk, except
at a permanent or temporary driveway approved by the Director of Community
Development of the Village. No driver of any motor vehicle shall drive into or
upon any portion of a designated safety zone.
   B.   Any owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of a building in an industrial
zoned district shall provide adequate driveway aprons, driveways and/or other
accessways to its loading area or, in the alternative, prohibit the shipment of
goods to or from its premises in vehicles which are unable to enter a loading
area without causing damage to the unpaved parkway portion of the right-of-way
adjacent to or opposite the premises. Any damage which occurs in the unpaved
parkways adjacent to and on either side of a Village right-of-way shall be
conclusive evidence that improper access has been provided to or from such
loading areas by the owner, lessee, tenant or occupant of such property and
said owner, lessee, tenant or occupant shall, therefore, be responsible for any
damage caused as a result thereof. It shall be unlawful for such owner, lessee,
tenant or occupant to fail to make restitution to the Village for damage to the
Village parkway due to the improper access conditions described herein. Failure
to make restitution within thirty (30) days from receipt of notice of damage to
an adjacent parkway shall be deemed to be a violation of this Section.
§ 6-3-4 TRAFFIC ON BOULEVARDS.
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this Section, a “vehicle” is defined as
every device in or upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved or used by human
power.
   B.   Restrictions on Boulevard Traffic: It shall be unlawful to operate any
vehicle, designed primarily or used for carrying freight or goods and
merchandise for commercial purposes when said vehicle bears a class D license
plate or greater, as designated in 625 ILCS 5/3-815, except at stop
intersections for the purpose of crossing a boulevard; provided, however, that
vehicles bearing a class D license plate or greater, carrying freight or other
merchandise from or to any building or premises abutting any boulevard, where
it is impossible from the location of the building or the kind or character of
the freight or goods to be received or delivered, to receive or deliver the
freight or other goods or merchandise from a side street or a street other than
said boulevard, shall be permitted to enter such boulevard at the cross street
nearest said building or premises and receive or deliver such freight or other
goods but shall not thereafter proceed further on said boulevard than the
nearest cross street. Operators of emergency vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this Subsection.
   C.   Boulevards Designated: For purposes of Subsection B of this Section,
the following streets are designated as boulevards in the Village:
      Elk Grove Boulevard;
      John F. Kennedy Boulevard;
      Northwest Point Boulevard;
      Reverend Morrison Boulevard.
   D.   Penalties: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and
each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 6-3-5 GOLF CARTS ON HIGHWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any golf cart on a
highway in the Village except for any such highway in the Village wherein a
direct crossing for golf carts is provided subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The crossing is made at any angle of approximately ninety degrees (90°)
to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a
quick and safe crossing; and
   B.   The golf cart is brought to a complete stop before crossing any such
highway; and
   C.   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes a hazard unless said traffic is required to come to a complete and
full stop at said designated crossing.
§ 6-3-6 PARKING REGULATIONS.
§ 6-3-6-1 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   A.   All Night Parking: No person shall park any vehicle on any street in
the Village between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and five o’clock (5:
00) A.M. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls and emergency
vehicles in the performance of their assignments.
   B.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   C.   Vehicles for Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale. It shall be further unlawful
to park any vehicle upon any private property whereon the general public is
invited to attend and enter for the purpose of displaying said vehicle for sale
without the express written consent of the owner of said private property,
which consent must be affixed in a visible location on said vehicle. Any
vehicles parked on private property whereon the general public is invited
without said consent shall be presumed to be trespassing (see Section
6-6-2-2 of this Title) and further presumed to be in violation of this
Subsection.
   D.   Cab Stands; Bus Stands: No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall
be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand, and no vehicle
other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading
zone.
   E.   Temporary No Parking; Relocation: Temporary no parking locations may be
designated by the Police Department in certain emergency situations such as
Fire Department or Police Department responses, Public Works responses to water
or sewer emergencies and the like, or when streets need to be cleared for
Village events such as the annual parade. Vehicles parked in violation of the
temporary no parking designation may be relocated by the Police Department or
their designee to designated relocation centers. There shall be no cost for
such relocation to the owner of the vehicle provided that the vehicle is
reclaimed within twenty-four (24) hours of the relocation, otherwise a storage
fee may be imposed in the amount posted by the Police Department for each day
the vehicle remains unclaimed.
   F.   Resident Permit Parking Only:
      1.   No vehicle shall be parked on any street where signs are posted
stating resident permit parking only unless the vehicle has a valid permit
designated by the Police Department. Violators will be subject to having their
vehicles towed to the Village’s designated towed vehicle facility. No vehicle
will be released until all towing and applicable storage fees are paid.
      2.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this division shall
be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In addition, all
violators shall be subject to having their vehicles being towed to a designated
towed vehicle storage facility.
§ 6-3-6-2 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between the hours of
eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M. in any area designated as
a limited parking area and so marked.
§ 6-3-6-3 LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed thirty (30)
minutes, in any place designated by the Mayor and Board of Trustees as a
loading zone and marked as such or in any of the following designated places:
   A.   At any place not to exceed seventy-five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy-five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o’clock (6:00) P.M. except on Sunday;
   C.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business.
§ 6-3-6-4 SNOW REMOVAL OPERATIONS.
   A.   Parking Prohibited; Vehicles to be Towed:
      1.   Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
cause to be parked any vehicle on any public street within the corporate limits
of the Village at any time within a twenty-four (24) hour period after an
accumulation of two inches (2") or more of snow.
      2.   Emergency Towing: It shall be deemed an emergency for any car or
other vehicle to be in violation of Subsection A1 of this Section or for any
parked vehicle to otherwise prevent or obstruct the plowing or removal of snow
from public streets, and the Police Department and all members thereof are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or cause the removal and towing by a
commercial towing service of any such car or other vehicle. Cars or vehicles so
towed shall be taken to and stored in designated locations and shall be
restored to the owner or operator upon the payment of all towage and storage
fees in such amounts as hereinafter provided. The Police Department shall
notify the owner of any such vehicle removed of its location as soon as is
reasonably possible in accordance with Police Department procedures established
therefor.
      3.   Towage: The fee for the removal of cars or vehicles, whether by
commercial service or by Village operated vehicles, shall be the rate as posted
by the Police Department. In addition thereto, the owner or operator may be
subject to an additional charge for preparation of the vehicle for towing if
the vehicle is embedded or positioned in such a manner that normal towing
services cannot be readily performed. In addition, a storage fee as posted by
the Police Department will be applicable for each day the vehicle is in
storage. Such fees shall be in addition to any fines, penalties or court costs
which may be assessed for the violations of any of the provisions of this
Section or any other ordinance violation.
      Payment of towing, preparation and storage fees shall be paid directly to
the commercial establishment which rendered the service, or, in the case of the
Village’s operated vehicles, directly to the Village.
      4.   Nonliability of Village: The Village shall not be liable for any
damages which may occur to any car or vehicle as a result of any towing,
preparation or storage as provided herein.
      5.   Unlawful Removal of Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person to
remove, cause the removal of or be in the possession of any car or vehicle
taken from a designated storage location without first having paid all towing,
preparation and storage fees as above provided.
   B.   Obstruction of Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person and/or
for any agent of any person to:
      1.   Plow or otherwise remove accumulated snow from a private parking lot
and deposit same on a Village street or right-of-way.
      2.   Plow snow from a private driveway and deposit same on a Village
street in such a manner so as to decrease the drivable width of any such
street.
      3.   Obstruct, harass, prevent or otherwise interfere with any employee
of the Village engaged in snow removal service or to obstruct, cause damage to
or otherwise interfere with any Village owned or leased vehicle used in
conjunction with snow removal services.
      Any person violating any of the provisions of this Subsection shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) and, in addition thereto, shall be
responsible and make full payment for any damage to Village property. Citations
for violations of this Subsection may be issued to the owner of the property
involved and also to any industry or firm which acts as an agent for any such
owner.
§ 6-3-6-5 TRUCKS AND TRACTORS.
   No person shall stand or park any truck, tractor, semitrailer or trailer for
a longer period than is necessary for the reasonably expeditious loading or
unloading of such vehicle.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of this Section is hereby declared to be a
nuisance which may be abated by any police officer by removing such vehicle to
the Village vehicle pound or to an authorized garage. All costs in connection
with the removing and storage of said vehicle shall be borne by the violator.
§ 6-3-6-6 PARKING FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY.
   A.   Parking Facilities Required: All off-street parking areas, where
applicable, shall comply with the currently adopted Illinois Accessibility Code
(71 IAC 400).
   B.   Specifications and Location of Parking Spaces: The locations,
dimensions and identification of off-street parking spaces shall comply with
the currently adopted Illinois Accessibility Code (71 IAC 400) and any
applicable local requirements.
   The location of the parking spaces and the manner in which the
identification sign is affixed or posted must be approved by the Department of
Community Development of the Village. All such signs shall be purchased,
installed and maintained by the owners of the property where the signs are
located.
   C.   Effect of Compliance: Any person who complies with the provisions of
this Section shall not be deemed to be in violation of other applicable parking
ordinances with respect to the number of parking stalls required if such
violation is caused or directly related to compliance with the conditions
hereof.
   D.   Parking Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to park,
stand or otherwise allow a vehicle to be in a stopped position if said vehicle
is not bearing registration plates, permits or decals issued to a person with a
disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 or 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code or to a veteran with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609 of
said Code in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility, specifically designated as a parking area for persons with
disabilities by the posting of a sign in conformance with the provisions of
this Section. The exemptions above stated are only applicable to the person to
whom the special registration plates, special decal or device were issued and
to qualified operators acting under the express direction of a person with a
disability while the person with a disability is present.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each
offense, which fine or penalty shall be in addition to any costs or charges
connected with the removal or storage of such motor vehicle authorized pursuant
to 625 ILCS 5/11-1302(a) of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
§ 6-3-6-7 SIGNS POSTED.
   The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited
or prohibited indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
§ 6-3-6-8 PARKING AND STORAGE OF OVERSIZED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, park or store
any recreational vehicle, tow type vehicle and boat in any residential zoned
district in the Village except as provided in this Section.
   B.   The parking and storage of recreational vehicles, tow type vehicles and
boats shall be permitted within the front yard of property in residential zoned
districts provided that such vehicles adhere to the following size
restrictions:
      1.   The overall length of the vehicle, including the tongue of the
trailer and the furthermost projection of the trailer and vehicle being towed
does not exceed a length of twenty-five feet (25').
      2.   The overall height shall not exceed eight feet (8').
      3.   The overall width shall not exceed nine feet (9').
   No portion of any such vehicle shall be permitted to overhang or block the
public sidewalk. Recreational vehicles, tow type vehicles and boats, in excess
of any of the size limitations, may only be parked and stored in single-family
residential districts in the rear lot of the building, inside a garage area, or
in a side yard, not fronting a street, but behind the front building line and
further provided that they conform to all other conditions contained in the
Zoning Ordinance applicable to the parking of vehicles.
   Notwithstanding the above, recreational vehicles, tow type vehicles and
boats, in excess of any of the size limitations, may be parked in the front of
the building line for a period of time not to exceed ninety-six (96) hours per
month in duration for the purpose of loading, unloading, cleaning and
maintenance.
   C.   Recreational vehicles, tow type vehicles, boats and trailers shall not
be used as an accessory structure as defined in the Zoning Ordinance. No
recreational vehicle shall be used for the storage of goods, material or
equipment other than those items required for its intended purpose.
   D.   At no time shall parked or stored vehicles be occupied or used for
living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes.
   E.   Not more than one recreational vehicle, tow type vehicle or boat shall
be parked or stored on a lot in a residential zoned district. In addition, the
owner of a recreational vehicle, tow type vehicle or boat shall not park or
store such vehicle in such a manner as to create a dangerous or unsafe
condition on the property where parked or stored. Parking or storage in such a
fashion that the vehicle, whether loaded or not, may readily tip or roll shall
be considered a dangerous and unsafe condition. The ground under and
surrounding any parked recreational vehicle, tow type trailer or boat shall be
free of noxious weeds, overgrowth, litter or debris.
§ 6-3-6-9 NONRECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, park or store
any nonrecreational motorized or tow type vehicle or equipment in any
residential zoned district in the Village except as provided in this Section.
   B.   The parking and storage of nonrecreational motorized and tow type
vehicles shall be permitted within the front yard of property in residential
zoned districts provided that such vehicles adhere to the following size
restrictions.
      1.   The overall length of the vehicle or combination of vehicles,
including the tongue of any trailer does not exceed a length of twenty-five
feet (25').
      2.   The overall height, including temporary appurtenances, shall not
exceed eight feet (8').
      3.   The overall width shall not exceed nine feet (9').
   For the purpose of these regulations, when a tandem axle trailer is hitched
to an otherwise permitted tow vehicle, the length of the overall combination of
vehicles cannot exceed twenty-five feet (25'). No such combination vehicle,
regardless of its length, shall be permitted to overhang or block the public
sidewalk.
   The temporary parking of school buses exceeding the above referenced
dimensions for height and width, but not exceeding an overall length of twenty-
five feet (25'), shall be permitted within the front yard of property in
residential zoned districts on school days between the hours of six o’clock (6:
00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M. as long as no portion of the vehicle
overhangs or blocks the public sidewalk.
   C.   Nonrecreational motorized and tow type vehicles in excess of any of the
size limitations may only be parked and stored in single-family residential
districts in the rear lot of the building, inside a garage area or in a side
yard, not fronting a street, but behind the front building line and further
provided that they conform to all other conditions contained in the Zoning
Ordinance applicable to the parking of vehicles. Not more than one
nonrecreational motorized or tow type vehicle exceeding the dimensions
identified in Subsection B of this Section shall be parked or stored on a lot
in a residential zoned district.
   D.   Notwithstanding the preceding regulations, it shall be prohibited to
park or store the following nonrecreational vehicles or equipment on any
residentially zoned lot: bobcats, backhoes, asphalt rollers, street sweepers,
wood chippers, cement mixers, garbage trucks, commercial/industrial generators
and compressors, cabs for semi-trailers and similar vehicles or equipment not
representative of a residential neighborhood setting. Provided that the
provisions of this Section shall not apply to governmental facilities.
   E.   It shall be prohibited to park or store the following nonrecreational
vehicles or equipment within the front yard area of any residentially zoned
lot: open trailers used to transport construction vehicles and equipment and/or
the equipment itself including, but not limited to, landscaping and lawn
maintenance equipment, trailers used to transport of bobcats, backhoes and
similar related construction equipment. The parking of otherwise permitted
vehicles with a snowplow blade attached shall be limited to the period of time
between November 1 and April 30 and the vehicle to which the snowplow blade is
attached shall be parked in such a manner that the snowplow blade is facing
away from the public view from the street.
§ 6-3-6-10 OVERSIZED VEHICLES IN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park any truck, tractor,
semitrailer or other such vehicle which weighs in excess of five (5) tons on
private commercial property within the Village which has signs posted
prohibiting such parking and which the owner has requested the Village, in
writing, to enforce parking regulations.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for
each offense.
§ 6-3-6-11 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
6-3-6, unless a separate penalty is specifically provided, shall be subject to
a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-3-7 ELECTRIC BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   A.   Regulations: Any person who does not possess a valid driver’s license
shall not operate an electric bicycle upon any public street and the permitted
licensed driver shall be subject to the following restrictions.
      1.   A person may not operate an electric bicycle on a public street
where the speed limit is 35 mph or greater.
      2.   Every electric bicycle used during night hours must be equipped with
a front lamp that emits a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and a red reflector on the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 to 600 feet.
      3.   All electric bicycle operators shall adhere to the State of Illinois
Rules of the Road regulations pertaining to bicycle usage.
   B.   Violations/Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first
offense, any prior warning not deemed to be a prior offense. The penalty for a
second offense shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). Thereafter, subsequent
violations shall subject the operator to a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each and every offense.
   C.   Compliance Offense: Any violation of this Section shall be deemed a
compliance type violation and any police officer who observes a violation may
issue a “C” ticket in such form as authorized by the Chief of Police. The “C”
ticket shall set forth the nature of the violation and advise the violator of
the settlement procedure and costs associated therewith. Any person issued a
“C” ticket who fails to settle and compromise same within the stated required
time period will be given notice of a complaint being filed and a hearing date
being scheduled before the Village’s administrative adjudication hearing
officer, the procedure and processing thereof are as set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 11 of this Village Code.
   D.   Violations by Minors: Whenever any violation of this Section is
committed by a minor, for the purposes of this Section being an individual
under the age of eighteen (18), any detention of said minor shall be in
accordance with Section
6-7-3 of this Village Code.
§ 6-3-8 SKATEBOARDS.
   A.   Public Policy: It is hereby determined that the unregulated use of
skateboards within the Village can be detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of residents of the Village and that the regulation of skateboard use
and operation is essential and in the best interest of the Village.
   B.   Skateboard Use Prohibited: It shall be deemed a nuisance and,
therefore, unlawful for any person to use, ride or otherwise operate a
skateboard in or on any of the following areas located in the Village:
      1.   In any public or private parking lot or way and private sidewalks
adjacent thereto which is under contract with or which the Village has
otherwise been authorized to regulate traffic and parking, which contract or
authorization expressly prohibits skateboard use and which is posted or has
appropriate signs indicating that skateboard use is prohibited;
      2.   On private property without the consent of the owner;
      3.   In any designated tennis court area in any public park in the
Village.
   C.   Reckless Skateboard Use Prohibited: It shall be deemed a nuisance and,
therefore, unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard in a reckless manner
or in such other manner so as to endanger the health, safety and welfare of
other individuals.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this Section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than five
dollars ($5.00) for each offense.
§ 6-3-9 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A.   Definition: “Inoperable motor vehicle”, as used in this Section, shall
mean any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the
engine, wheels or other parts have been removed or on which the engine, wheels
or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the
vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
   B.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles Prohibited: It shall be deemed a nuisance
and, therefore, unlawful for any person to permit or cause an inoperable motor
vehicle to be located on any public or private property within the Village
after having received a notice from the Police Department as hereinafter set
forth.
   C.   Notice to Remove or Remedy: When the Police Department is advised or
otherwise becomes aware of the existence of an inoperable motor vehicle, the
Department shall immediately notify and advise the owner of the vehicle or the
owner of the property on which the vehicle is located to remove the vehicle or
otherwise cause said vehicle to be in operating condition within fifteen (15)
days from the date the notice is issued.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to exist.
§ 6-3-10 MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS/MOTORIZED SCOOTERS.
   A.   Definition: A “motorized skateboard and/or motorized scooter” is
defined as any electric or gas driven wheeled scooter, motor driven cycle or
other similar motor driven vehicle for which the State of Illinois does not
issue a title document and does not issue license plates or registration
documents.
   B.   Public Policy: It is hereby determined that the operation and/or use of
motorized skateboards and/or motorized scooters within the Village by drivers
without a valid driver’s license can be detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the Village. Therefore, the prohibited use or
operation of a motorized skateboard and/or motorized scooter without a valid
driver’s license is essential and in the best interest of the Village.
   C.   Certain Use of Motorized Skateboards and/or Motorized Scooters
Prohibited: Any person who does not possess a valid driver’s license shall not
operate a motor driven skateboard or scooter as defined herein upon any public
street and the permitted licensed drivers shall be subject to the following
restrictions.
      1.   A person may not operate any motorized skateboard or scooter on a
public street where the posted speed limit is thirty-five (35) mph or greater.
      2.   Every motorized skateboard or scooter used during night hours must
be equipped with a front lamp that emits a white light visible from a distance
of at least five hundred (500') feet to the front and a red reflector on the
rear that is visible from all distances from one hundred (100') to six hundred
(600') feet.
      3.   Every motorized skateboard or scooter shall be equipped with a brake
that will adequately control the movement of and the stopping of the vehicle.
      4.   A person may not operate a motorized skateboard or scooter while
carrying a package, bundle or article that prevents the operator from safely
maintaining control nor shall the operator drive the motorized skateboard or
scooter while distracted in any way, including the use of cell phones.
   D.   Violations/Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Section shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first
offense, any prior warning not deemed to be a prior offense. The penalty for a
second offense shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). Thereafter, subsequent
violations shall subject the operator to a fine of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each and every offense.
   E.   Compliance Offense: Any violation of this Section shall be deemed a
compliance type violation and any police officer who observes a violation may
issue a “C” ticket in such form as authorized by the Chief of Police. The “C”
ticket shall set forth the nature of the violation and advise the violator of
the settlement procedure and costs associated therewith. Any person issued a
“C” ticket who fails to settle and compromise same within the stated required
time period will be given a notice of a complaint being filed and a hearing
date being scheduled before the Village’s administrative adjudication hearing
officer, the procedure and processing thereof are as set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 11 of this Village Code.
   F.   Violation by Minor: Whenever any violation of this Section is committed
by a minor, for the purposes of this Section being an individual under the age
of eighteen (18), any detention of said minor shall be in accordance with
Section
6-7-3 of this Village Code.
§ 6-3-11 AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.
§ 6-3-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Section, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Subsection:
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the Village with
one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of Section 11-
306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-306 or similar violation of
Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter.
   DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
Section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter.
   RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: A person appointed who shall have the
following additional powers: adopt, distribute and process automated traffic
law violation notices and other notices required by this Section; authorize the
collection of money paid as fines and penalties; operate the automated traffic
law enforcement system; and make certified reports to the Secretary of State as
required by this Section.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village, counties of Cook and DuPage,
Illinois.
   VILLAGE CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Elk Grove Village,
Illinois.
   VIOLATION: Motor vehicle entering an intersection against a steady red or
flashing signal or failing to come to a complete stop prior to turning right on
a steady red or flashing signal or failing to come to a complete stop prior to
turning left from a one-way street to a one-way street on a steady or flashing
red signal or turning right on a red signal at an intersection controlled by a
“No Turn On Red” or similar sign in violation of Section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code or similar violation of Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter. The foregoing notwithstanding, it shall not be
considered a violation of an automated traffic enforcement system in those
instances where a motor vehicle comes to a complete stop as defined by Section
1-199 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar provision of this Code and prior
to entering an intersection as defined by Section 1-132 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code during the cycle of the red signal indication, even if the motor vehicle
stops at a point past the stop line or crosswalk where a driver is required to
stop, but prior to entering the intersection as specified in Subsection (c) of
Section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar Section of this Code,
unless one or more pedestrians or bicyclists are present.
§ 6-3-11-2 VIOLATIONS OF RED LIGHT TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE.
   It shall be a violation of this Section for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on a red light or flashing red signal in violation of
Section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar provisions of Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter, except it shall not be considered a violation of this
Section
6-3-11 where a motor vehicle comes to a complete stop, as defined by Section 1-
199 of the Illinois Vehicle Code and prior to entering the intersection as
defined by Section 1-132 of the Illinois Vehicle Code during the cycle of the
red signal indication, even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past the stop
line or crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as specified in
Subsection (c) of Section 11-306 of the Illinois Vehicle Code or similar
provision of this Code, unless one or more pedestrians or bicyclists are
present.
§ 6-3-11-3 DEFENSES.
   A.   The following may be considered defenses by the Administrative
Adjudicator for a violation of Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter:
      1.   That the motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle
were stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in
the possession of the owner at the time of the violation;
      2.   That the driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when
the light was red either: a) in order to yield the right-of-way to an emergency
vehicle or b) as part of a funeral procession;
      3.   At the direction of a police officer acting within the scope of
their duties;
      4.   The driver of the motor vehicle was issued a uniform traffic
citation by a police officer for a violation of Section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code or Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter.
   B.   To demonstrate that the motor vehicle or the registration plates were
stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the control or
possession of the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit
proof that a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
§ 6-3-11-4 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   A.   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter, the Village shall issue a written notice of violation
to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by
U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois Secretary of State
notifies the Village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the violation.
The Village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/
lessor provides the lessee’s name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease
within sixty (60) days of the notice’s issuance. If the driver information is
not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor may be found
liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a second
notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. The
second notice shall be made by first class mail postage prepaid.
   B.   A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by a Village
police officer or retired police officer or by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator, if the Traffic Compliance Administrator is a Village police
officer or retired police officer, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in Section
6-3-11-3 of this Chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that the recorded image captures a violation and that no defense
applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle
owner in the manner provided for above. The Traffic Compliance Administrator
shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other
correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each notice of violation
shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in Section
6-3-11-3 of this Chapter.
   C.   The notice of violation shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States post office approved database;
      2.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   The violation charged;
      4.   The location where the violation occurred;
      5.   The date and time of the violation;
      6.   A copy of the recorded images;
      7.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance), if a hearing,
either in person or by mail, is not requested, and a statement that the payment
of the fine shall operate as a final disposition of the violation;
      8.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      9.   The amount of the late fee;
      10.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
      11.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine
or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing; and
      13.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested.
§ 6-3-11-5 HEARING.
   The owner or lessee of a vehicle being operated in violation of Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter may request a hearing by the “respond by date” on the
notice of violation (fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance), to
challenge the evidence or set forth an applicable defense. The notice of
violation shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter. The notice of violation shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
Section
6-3-11-3 of this Chapter. Other than the fine or penalty imposed upon a finding
of liability for the violation and any late payment penalty for failure to pay
the fine or penalty in a timely manner, no additional fee or cost shall be
imposed upon vehicle owner or lessee for exercising one’s right to contest the
violation.
   The owner’s failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding of
liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a “findings, decision and
order” letter will be sent to the owner. The owner’s failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
§ 6-3-11-6 CONTEST BY MAIL.
   A registered owner or lessee of a cited vehicle that seeks to contest the
merits of the alleged violation, may contest the charges using the same
available defenses as stated above, but rather than attend the administrative
hearing, may submit any and all documentary evidence to the Traffic Compliance
Administrator no later than the hearing date, together with a written statement
setting forth their defense to the violation. The Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall forward all timely submitted materials to the
Administrative Adjudicator for review and determination.
§ 6-3-11-7 FINAL DETERMINATION.
   A final determination of an automated traffic law violation(s) liability
shall occur:
   A.   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty after
the Administrative Adjudicator’s determination of vehicular standing, parking,
compliance regulation or automated traffic law violation(s) liability within
the required twenty-five (25) days and the exhaustion of or the failure to
exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth; or
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at the prior requested administrative
hearing provided to contest the alleged standing, parking or compliance
regulation violation(s) on the date and at the time and place specified in a
prior served or mailed notice, or fails to appear at the hearing for an
automated traffic law violation on the date and at the time and place specified
in a prior mailed notice. The Administrative Adjudicator’s determination of
vehicular standing, parking compliance regulation or automated traffic law
violation(s) liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure
to exhaust any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set
forth:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination; or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made.
§ 6-3-11-8 NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within fourteen (14) days of the notice of violation. Where a person
fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and
manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the Administrative Adjudicator will
enter findings, decision and order’s determination of automated traffic law
violation liability which shall become final: a) upon denial of a timely
petition to set aside that determination, or b) upon expiration of the period
for filing such a petition without a filing having been made. If a person
appears at a hearing and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and
is found liable, the Administrative Adjudicator will enter findings, decision
and order, which is the final determination of automated traffic law violation
liability that is a final, appealable order.
§ 6-3-11-9 NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION.
   A notice of final determination shall be sent following the final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion
of judicial review. The notice of final determination shall include the
following information:
   A.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
Village;
   B.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the Village
of Elk Grove Village within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to the
circuit court of Cook County or DuPage County accordingly to have the unpaid
fine rendered as a judgment or may result in the suspension of the person’s
driver’s license for failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5) or more
violations under this Section
6-3-11.
§ 6-3-11-10 PETITION TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION.
   A.   A petition to set aside determination of an automated traffic law
violation must be filed with or mailed to the Traffic Compliance Administrator
within fourteen (14) days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination
of liability. The grounds for the petition are limited to:
      1.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the
date the violation notice was issued;
      2.   The person having already paid the fine for the violation in
question; and
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   B.   Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of
liability, the Administrative Adjudicator shall review the petition to
determine if cause has been shown to set aside the determination. If cause has
been shown, the Village shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on
which the petitioner must appear to present their case or contest the violation
by mail. The Village shall notify the petitioner of the Administrative
Adjudicator’s decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within fourteen
(14) days of the Village’s receipt of the petition.
§ 6-3-11-11 PENALTY.
   The registered owner or lessee of a motor vehicle violating Section
6-3-11-2 of this Chapter shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense. Failure to pay the original fine within fourteen (14) days of the
issuance of the notice of final determination shall result in an additional one
hundred dollar ($100.00) late payment fine.
§ 6-3-11-12 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Recorded images made by automated traffic law enforcement system shall be
confidential and shall be made available only to the alleged violator,
governmental agencies, the Elk Grove Village Police Department and
Administrative Adjudicator for purposes of adjudicating violations, statistical
or other governmental purposes.
§ 6-3-11-13 SIGNAGE; WEBSITE POSTING.
   Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law enforcement system
shall have a sign posted which is clearly visible to approaching traffic
indicating that the intersection is being monitored by an automated traffic law
enforcement system.
   The location of all intersections equipped with an automated traffic law
enforcement system shall be posted on the official Village website.
§ 6-3-12 OVERWEIGHT AND OVERSIZED VEHICLES.
   A.   Weight Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any
motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways or the weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law as set forth in Chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/15-100 et seq.), which codes have been adopted by the Village as
and for portions of the vehicle code of the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   B.   Bond and Bond Forfeitures: All persons charged with a violation of
Subsection A of this Section or a violation of Chapter 15 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code or Section 5/3-401(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code shall post a
cash bond in an amount equal to the amount of the minimum fine established by
the motor vehicle code, plus administrative costs in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00). The defendant may, in lieu of cash bail, deposit a money
order issued by a money transfer service company which has been approved by the
Village of Elk Grove Village. The money order shall be payable to the Village
of Elk Grove Village. If a person who submits a bond or money order is found
guilty of or pleads guilty to the offense or fails to appear for a hearing
before the Administrative Adjudicator, the Administrative Adjudicator may order
the forfeiture of all or part of the bond or money order to the Village of Elk
Grove Village.
   C.   Authority of Administrative Adjudicator: Any violations of the Illinois
Vehicle Code relating to overweight trucks, specifically violations of Chapter
15 or Section 5/3-401(d) of the Illinois Vehicle Code may be decided by the
Administrative Adjudicator as set forth in Title 1, Chapter 11 of this Code.
§ 6-3-13 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR OVERWEIGHT OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES.
   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicles or combination
of vehicles which exceeds the maximum size and weight limits described in 625
ILCS 5/15-102 (width), 15-103 (height), 15-107 (length) and 15-111 (weight) of
the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   A.   Exemptions: Exempt from permits are the following: Fire Department
vehicles, those vehicles operating under an emergency declaration, Village
owned vehicles engaged in emergency utility repair, equipment used for snow and
ice removal, owned or operated by any governmental body.
   B.   Permit Required: Any person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship or organization moving an oversize or overweight load shall
obtain an Elk Grove Village permit. The permit must be in writing or electronic
form and be carried in the vehicle to which it refers. The Village reserves the
right to reject the issuance of a permit for any vehicle movement which would
cause damage to Village streets.
   C.   Permit Application: Application for a permit to move an overweight and/
or an overdimension vehicle or combination of vehicles, with a load which has
been reasonably disassembled must be made to the Elk Grove Village Police
Chief, or their designee, and the following information shall be included:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant and the applicant’s
business name, address and phone number;
      2.   Whether the permit is requested for a single trip (five (5) days),
round trip (ten (10) days) or for quarterly (ninety (90) days) continuous
operation;
      3.   The vehicle registration number, and a description of the power unit
and load;
      4.   The routing, including point of origin and destination; and
      5.   Whether the vehicle or loads are being transported for hire.
   D.   Issuance of Single and Round Trip Permits: Permits for single and round
trip movements shall be issued as follows.
      1.   Permits for single trip movements are issued for one-way movement.
These permits are valid for five (5) days from date of issuance. Permits for
round trip movements are issued for a vehicle or load to be moved in and out
from a destination, and shall be valid for a period of ten (10) days from the
date of issuance.
      2.   Unless stated otherwise on a permit, single and round trip permit
movements may be made only from thirty (30) minutes before sunrise to thirty
(30) minutes after sunset.
   E.   Issuance of LCO Permit: Permits for round trips limited continuous
operation (LCO) permits shall be issued as follows.
      1.   LCO permits may be issued to a single power unit as quarterly
(ninety (90) days).
      2.   Vehicles issued LCO permits are nontransferable between vehicles and
may make unlimited overweight and overdimension moves on Village streets within
the limitations of the permit.
      3.   Unless stated otherwise on the permit, LCO permit movements may be
made only from thirty (30) minutes before sunrise to thirty (30) minutes after
sunset.
   F.   Liability and Indemnification:
      1.   The permittee shall assume total liability for any and all damages
to streets, bridges, Village owned appurtenances and private or public property
while engaged in a permit move. The measure of liability is the cost for all
repairs or replacement of property damaged by the permittee, plus all costs for
Village personnel required as a result of or occasioned by the incident causing
the damage.
      2.   The permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the Village or
members of the Police Department from any costs, judgments or settlements,
including attorney fees, arising from physical injuries, including loss of
life, or damage to or loss of property related to acts or omissions by
permittee, its officers, agents or employees pursuant to the permit.
      3.   Upon application for a permit each applicant shall provide evidence
of a valid comprehensive general liability insurance policy, for protection
against personal injury or property damage in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The Village shall be listed as a certificate
holder on the policy.
   G.   Fees: Fees for overweight and/or oversized vehicle permits shall be
assessed the following amounts plus the applicable fee charged by the permit
processor:
 
Single trip (5 day) $50.00
Round trip (10 day) $80.00
Quarterly (90 day)  $200.00
 
   H.   County or State Permits: This Section applies only to permits for the
movement of overweight and/or overdimension vehicles on streets owned by Elk
Grove Village. Appropriate permits must be obtained from the proper
jurisdiction for movement of these vehicles on county or state highways which
are located within Elk Grove Village.
   I.   Penalties: All vehicles with a permit shall not be deemed to be in
violation of Section
6-3-12 of this Chapter, provided, however, that all overweight and
overdimension movement violating the conditions of the permit shall be subject
to being fined in accordance with the schedule set forth in Chapter 15 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code including all applicable surcharge and circuit court
fees.
   J.   Escort Vehicles: Escort vehicles are required as outlined in Chapter 15
of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
§ 6-3-14 SPECTATOR ACTIVITY AT STREET RACES AND STREET SIDESHOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Be knowingly present as a spectator at a Street Race or a Street Side
Show, as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-506, anywhere in
the Village.
   B.   Be knowingly present as a Spectator where preparations are being made
for a Street Race or Street Sideshow, as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code,
625 ILCS 5/11-506, anywhere in the Village.
   C.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit a peace officer or their agents
who are acting in the course of their official duties from being spectators at
a Street Race or Street Sideshow or present at the location of the preparations
for a Street Race or Street Sideshow, anywhere in the Village.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Knowingly encourage, promote, instigate, assist, facilitate, aid or
abet the gathering of persons as spectators at a Street Race or Street
Sideshow, as same are defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-506,
anywhere in the Village.
   B.   Knowingly encourage, promote, instigate, assist, facilitate, aid or
abet the gathering of persons as spectators where preparations are being made
for a Street Race or Street Sideshow, as same are defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-506, anywhere in the Village.
   Penalties – Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs.
CHAPTER 4: TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
6-4-1   Through Streets
   
6-4-2   Parking Restrictions for Semi-Tractors and Semi-Trailers
   
6-4-3   Fire Lanes
   
6-4-4   Limited Load Streets
   
6-4-5   Speed Restrictions
   
6-4-6   Violation of Posted Signage
   
6-4-7   Signs Posted; Emergency Regulations
   
6-4-8   Penalty
§ 6-4-1 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the Village designated by ordinance as
through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of any
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to any other vehicles or pedestrians which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed by the police officer or a
traffic control signal. The driver of any vehicle shall come to a complete stop
whether or not real hazards are present.
   Every driver of any vehicle traversing any street intersection with any
through street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon the through street
within ten feet (10') of such intersection unless a go signal is given at such
intersection by a police officer or traffic signal or traffic control signs or
devices at such intersections.
   As list of streets, roads and highways or portions thereof that have been
designated and declared to be through streets, except where controlled by a
four-way stop, signalization or other traffic controls, is on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk.
§ 6-4-2 PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR SEMI-TRACTORS AND SEMI-TRAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, park or leave standing
any semi-tractor or semi-trailer on any public street between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. Any person, firm or
corporation violating the provisions of this Section shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $250.00 for each offense.
§ 6-4-3 FIRE LANES.
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, the term “fire lane” shall
be deemed to be any street, alley, driveway, roadway, accessway or easement of
access, whether paved or unpaved, that is kept, maintained or intended to
provide ingress and egress for firefighting vehicles and equipment to or from
any building, structure or fire hydrant. A “fire lane” may be publicly
dedicated or wholly or partly located on or over private property where the
owner has consented.
   B.   Parking Prohibited in Fire Lanes: It shall be unlawful for any person
to park, stand or otherwise allow a vehicle to be in a stopped position or to
block or obstruct wholly or partly any of the above designated and posted fire
lanes.
   C.   Signs Posted: Fire lanes designated herein shall be posted with signs
approved by the Chief of the Fire Department and shall be purchased, installed
and maintained by the owners of the property where said signs are located.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-4-4 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making a delivery or picking up a load and where it is
impossible from the location of the building or the kind or character of the
freight or goods to be received or delivered, to receive or deliver the freight
or other goods or merchandise from a side street or a street other than the
streets regulated in Subsection A or B of this Section, in which case, such
vehicles shall be permitted to enter such street at the cross street nearest
said building or premises and receive or deliver such freight or other goods
but shall not thereafter proceed further on such street than the nearest cross
street.
   A.   Vehicles Weighing in Excess of Five (5) Tons: It shall be unlawful for
any person to operate a motor vehicle, except a public passenger vehicle, in
excess of five (5) tons on any street or road in the Village, except the
following:
      All streets lying east of Busse Road;
      All streets lying north of Higgins Road;
      All streets lying south of Landmeier Road and east of Tonne Road;
      Arlington Heights Road;
      Biesterfield Road lying east of Rohlwing Road;
      Devon Avenue;
      Higgins Road;
      Rohlwing Road.
   B.   Vehicles in Excess of Twelve (12) Tons: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate a motor vehicle, except a public passenger vehicle, in excess
of twelve (12) tons on the following streets in the Village:
      Rohlwing Road between Biesterfield Road and the northern Village limit.
   Any person violating Subsection A or B of this Section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-4-5 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any
street in the Village not located in an industrial zone and not under the
jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works and buildings, State of Illinois
or counties of Cook and DuPage at a speed in excess of twenty-five (25) miles
per hour, except on Nerge Road between Devon Avenue and Rohlwing Road, on
Oakton Street between Shadywood Lane and Higgins Road (Route 72) and on
Biesterfield Road between Arlington Heights Road and Rohlwing Road where the
speed shall not be in excess of thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   B.   Industrial Zone: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any
street in an industrial zone and not under the jurisdiction of the Department
of Public Works and buildings, State of Illinois or counties of Cook and DuPage
at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour. The “industrial zone of Elk
Grove Village”, for this purpose, is defined as being any portion of the
Village lying north of Higgins Road and both north and south of Landmeier Road
and east of the west boundary of Tonne Road.
   C.   Construction Zone: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on
any street in a construction zone or area not under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Public Works, State of Illinois or county of Cook or DuPage at a
speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour. A “construction zone” or “area”
is hereby defined as being any portion of the Village in which construction of
houses, buildings and the like is in progress within the Village boundaries.
   D.   Unpaved Roads: No person shall drive or operate a vehicle upon any
public road or street in the Village which is unpaved or unsurfaced at a speed
greater than is reasonable and proper.
   If the rate of speed of any motor vehicle operated on any public road or
street in the Village which is unpaved or unsurfaced exceeds twenty-five (25)
miles per hour, such rate of speed shall be prima facie evidence that the
person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of speed greater than
is reasonable and proper.
   E.   School Zones: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while
traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass when
going to and from school during school days and when schoolchildren are
present.
   F.   Second Division Vehicles: Provided, that the speed of all vehicles of
the second division, as defined by statute, having two (2) or more solid tires
shall not exceed ten (10) miles per hour.
§ 6-4-6 VIOLATION OF POSTED SIGNAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or any vehicle to operate their vehicle
in violation of any and all signs which regulate traffic and parking on Village
streets, including, but not limited to, signs regulating turning movements,
stopping at through street and stop intersections, yield right-of-way
intersections, speed restrictions, restricted and prohibited parking signage,
including signage previously approved by Village Ordinance and future signage
approved by Village Ordinance, a listing of said signage being on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk.
§ 6-4-7 SIGNS POSTED; EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall post, or cause to be posted, suitable signs for
all such streets restricting or prohibiting applicable vehicle operation and
streets where parking is restricted or prohibited.
   In addition, the Chief of Police is empowered to post and enforce necessary
temporary regulations in the case of emergencies or special conditions.
§ 6-4-8 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise
provided, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred and fifty ($750.00) for each offense.
CHAPTER 5: ANIMALS AND ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
6-5-1   Purpose
   
6-5-2   Definitions
   
6-5-3   Certain Animals Prohibited
   
6-5-4   Rabies Control
   
6-5-5   Animal Nuisances
   
6-5-6   Receptacle for Animal Waste Required
   
6-5-7   Animal Exhibitions
   
6-5-8   Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
6-5-9   Impoundment and Redemption Procedures
   
6-5-10   Disposition of Dangerous Animals
   
6-5-11   Animal Shelters and Animal Foster Homes; Breeders
   
6-5-12   Enforcement
   
6-5-13   Penalties
§ 6-5-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to promote a harmonious relationship between
man and animal through the establishment of defined procedures when man and
animal interact. The defined procedures will include these situations or
conditions:
   A.   Protection of animals from abuse, neglect and rabies;
   B.   Provide security of residents from annoyance, intimidation, injury and
rabies by animals;
   C.   Establish the community’s method of response to residents regarding
situations involving animals; and
   D.   Develop a program designed to encourage responsible pet ownership and
dog and cat population control.
§ 6-5-2 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this Chapter, unless a contrary intention is clearly
evident, the following terms are used as herein defined:
   ANIMAL: Any living creature, domestic or wild, other than a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: A person or persons performing duties prescribed by
the Chief of Police.
   ANIMAL FOSTER HOME: An entity that accepts the responsibility for
stewardship of animals that are the obligation of an animal shelter, not to
exceed four (4) animals at any given time. Permits to operate as a “foster
home” shall be issued through the animal shelter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER: A facility operated, owned or maintained by a duly
incorporated humane society, animal welfare society or other nonprofit
organization for the purpose of providing for and promoting the welfare,
protection and humane treatment of animals. “Animal shelter” also means any
veterinary hospital or clinic operated by a veterinarian or veterinarians
licensed under the “Veterinary Medicine and Surgery Practice Act”, being 225
ILCS 115/1 et seq. and as now or hereafter amended, which operates for the
above mentioned purpose in addition to its customary purposes.
   AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, not under control by leash of the
owner or their agent, but a dog within the automobile or truck vehicle of its
owner shall be deemed to be upon the owner’s premises.
   BITING DOGS OR CATS: A dog or cat which has bitten, scratched or otherwise
injured any person so as to cause abrasion to the skin of such person.
   BREEDER (HOBBYIST): Any person(s) who breeds animals, normally dogs or cats,
as a hobby.
   BREEDER (PROFESSIONAL): Any person(s) who breeds animals, normally dogs or
cats, and maintains affiliation in a nationally recognized society for that
breed.
   CAT: Includes all members of the feline family (Felis catus).
   CONFINEMENT: Relative to vaccination or observation, means the restriction
of the animal at all times by the owner or their agent to an escape-proof
building and/or enclosure and away from the public.
   DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL: Any animal which has known vicious
propensities or which has been known to attack or injure any person who was
peacefully conducting themself in any place where they may lawfully be.
   DOG: Includes all members of the canine family (Canis familiaris).
   HAS BEEN BITTEN: Has been seized with the teeth or jaws or scratched by the
teeth or nails or wounded or pierced and includes contact of saliva with any
break or abrasion of skin.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection, subcutaneously, intramuscularly
or by any other route as approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture of
canine or feline anti-rabies vaccine approved by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture.
   LEASH: A cord or chain, no longer than eight feet (8'), securely fastened to
the collar or harness of a dog, cat or other animal.
   LIVESTOCK: Any species of horse, mule, donkey, cattle/cow, swine/pig, sheep
or goat.
   OWNER: Any person having right of property in a dog or cat or who keeps or
harbors a dog or cat or who has it in their care or acts as its custodian or
who knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any premises occupied
by them.
   PERMIT AGE: Any dog or cat which has attained the age of four (4) months.
   POULTRY: Any species of chicken/rooster, goose, turkey or duck.
   POUND: An establishment of the Police Department, licensed humane
organization, veterinary hospital or any licensed private firm or corporation
which is constructed for such purpose which acts as a restraint, quarantine or
confinement area for either stray or rabies suspect animals.
   RABIES INSPECTOR: A licensed veterinarian designated by the Chief of Police
pursuant to the Animal Control Act of the State of Illinois (510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq.).
§ 6-5-3 CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   A.   Wild or Vicious Animals: No person shall keep or permit to be kept on
their premises any wild or vicious animal. This Subsection shall not be
construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or
circuses.
   B.   Livestock: No person shall house or maintain any livestock or poultry
within any residential area of the Village.
   C.   Poisonous Animals: No person shall keep or permit to be kept on their
premises any poisonous animals or arthropod.
§ 6-5-4 RABIES CONTROL.
   A.   Rabies Suspects: Every veterinarian or other person discovering or
suspecting any animal to be suffering with rabies should report such fact to
the Police Department and/or Department of Community Development, giving name
and address of the owner of such animal and the license number thereof, if
known. If such animal, after examination by the rabies inspector, is verily
suspected to be suffering with said disease, the animal shall be immediately
placed under observation, in charge of a veterinarian licensed by the State of
Illinois, whose establishment is located in Cook County, for a period of not
less than ten (10) days for observation. If such animal should die during the
interval of observation, the intact brain shall forthwith be delivered to the
Illinois Department of Public Health.
   B.   Animal Bites; Procedures:
      1.   Procedures: Official procedure for bite cases shall be as follows.
         a.   When the Animal Control Officer receives information that a
person has been bitten by an animal, the animal owner shall be instructed to
have the animal examined by their veterinarian within twenty-four (24) hours.
         b.   The responding police officer shall fill out the Cook County or
DuPage County animal bite report, whichever is applicable, in full and they
shall send this report within twenty-four (24) hours to the Department of
Community Development and to the appropriate county department of animal
control (rabies control center).
         c.   All animals that bite must be impounded for ten (10) days,
following the first veterinary examination, at a facility under the observation
of licensed veterinarian, except impoundment at home shall be allowed dependent
upon a current rabies vaccination and the ability of the animal owner to
strictly confine the biting animal. All stray animals that have bitten must be
impounded for observation.
         d.   Records shall be maintained by the Animal Control Officer for all
impounded animals. The record shall include the animal owner’s name, address
and telephone number, if available, species of breed, color, sex and license or
tag number, if available and the time and date impounded.
         e.   The veterinarian examining the biting animal shall fill out and
send, within twenty-four (24) hours, the Cook County rabies observation notice
to the Cook County department of animal control.
         f.   Following the examination of the biting animal at the end of the
ten (10) days’ confinement period, the veterinarian shall complete the Cook
County rabies release report and shall send this report within twenty-four (24)
hours to the Cook County Department of Animal and Rabies Control and to the
Department of Community Development.
      2.   Exam and Impoundment Costs: The animal owner is responsible for all
costs relating to the examination and impoundment of the biting animal.
      3.   Unlawful Animal Disposal: It is unlawful for the owner of a biting
animal to euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of such animal until
it is released by the Cook County animal control administrator or their
authorized representative.
      4.   Violations: Any person having knowledge of a biting animal that has
not been properly examined and who does not report this fact to the Animal
Control Officer is in violation of this Section.
§ 6-5-5 ANIMAL NUISANCES.
   Every owner of any animal shall exercise proper care and control of their
animal to prevent it from becoming a public nuisance. It shall be deemed a
nuisance and, therefore, unlawful to permit the following:
   A.   To allow any animal to run at large in the Village at any time;
   B.   To allow excessive or untimely noise causing annoyance and discomfort
to surrounding neighbors so that their rest is broken and their sleep
interrupted and the reasonable use and enjoyment of their property is
disturbed;
   C.   To enter, even if on a leash, upon any school, public hall, restaurant,
confectionery shop, coffee shop, ice cream parlor, office, store, grocery, meat
market, bakery or any store or shop for the sale of food, except any shop for
the sale of animal pets, anywhere within the Village during the time that any
of said places or establishments are open for use by the public or persons
entitled to use the same. This shall not apply to any service animal as defined
in the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA);
   D.   To permit any animal, except when on a leash controlled by the owner or
their agent, to use or be upon any public street, sidewalk, parkway or public
area within the Village;
   E.   To allow the use of a leash longer than eight feet (8') in length on an
animal;
   F.   To allow any place where any animal is or may be kept to become unclean
or unsanitary. “Unsanitary”, when used herein, shall mean a condition which is
likely to attract vermin or rodents or endanger the public health or welfare of
the surrounding area;
   G.   To allow any animal to, without the consent of the owner of the
property concerned, injure, destroy or carry away any vegetable, plant, fruit,
shrub, tree, flower or other thing which may be on said premises or which may
be planted or seeded there;
   H.   To allow any animal to deposit excretory matter on property other than
that of the owner;
   I.   To allow any animal to molest passersby, attack persons or animals,
damage or impair the value of property, detrimentally affect the public health,
safety and welfare;
   J.   If any person fails to abate an animal nuisance after being given
notice of such nuisance, the following action shall be taken by the Village in
order to abate such nuisance.
      1.   If the animal creating the nuisance is a domestic animal owned and/
or licensed by the property owner, the Village shall issue applicable citations
and proceed accordingly, including, if necessary, citations with an established
court date for a judicial hearing.
      2.   If the animal creating the nuisance is a nondomestic, feral animal
which is being harbored by a property owner, the Village, after giving the
property owner ten (10) days’ notice to abate any such nuisance, may proceed to
abate the nuisance immediately, through such means as deemed necessary by the
Police Department. Any expense incurred by the Village in abating the nuisance
shall be charged to the property owner harboring such animal or animals.
§ 6-5-6 RECEPTACLE FOR ANIMAL WASTE REQUIRED.
   When walking a animal on any property other than that of the owner, a proper
receptacle shall be required to remove any excretory matter which may be
deposited by said animal. The receptacle must be clearly visible and must be
carried by all persons when walking an animal.
§ 6-5-7 ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes of the
law may be conducted only upon securing a permit from the Village Board.
§ 6-5-8 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Cruelty to Animals: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
Village in any way; any person who inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or
abandons any animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this Section.
   B.   Hunting: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any
animal other than as prescribed by law in the Village.
   C.   Injury to Animals: No person shall keep or harbor an animal in such a
manner so as likely to cause injury to the animal in any way.
   Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 6-5-9 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES.
   A.   Impoundment: Whenever an Animal Control Officer observes or is informed
that a dog, cat or pet is roaming freely and not under the control of the owner
in the public way, within any public place or upon private premises of any
person other than the owner, the dog, cat or pet shall be immediately
apprehended and impounded.
   B.   Records Kept: All dogs, cats or pets impounded shall have a record. The
record shall include the owner’s name, address and telephone number, if known,
species or breed, color, sex and license or tag number, if known, and the time
and date impounded.
   C.   Notice to Owner; Disposition: When owners of unclaimed dogs, cats or
other pets impounded are known, notice shall be given by telephone or by mail
to the last known address. Dogs, cats and other pets with known owners shall be
held not less than seven (7) days. Any dog, cat or other pet whose owner is not
identifiable must be held not less than seventy-two (72) hours. All apprehended
dogs, cats or other pets shall be placed for adoption, humanely euthanized or
otherwise disposed of in accordance with the Illinois state statutes, if not
claimed by the owner.
   D.   Impoundment and Redemption Costs: In addition to any fines or penalties
hereinafter imposed, the dog, cat or pet owner is responsible for all costs
relating to the apprehension and impoundment of the animal found not under
control, and in the case of unlicensed dogs and cats, pay the appropriate
license fee therefor.
§ 6-5-10 DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The members of the Police Department are authorized to dispose of any
dangerous animals when it is necessary for the protection of any person or
property.
§ 6-5-11 ANIMAL SHELTERS AND ANIMAL FOSTER HOMES; BREEDERS.
   A.   State License: All animal shelters operating within the Village must be
licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture. All animal foster homes
operating within the Village must have a permit issued by a state accredited
animal shelter. Any animal shelter or animal foster home operating within the
Village must comply with the rules set forth in the Illinois Animal Welfare
Act, being 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
   B.   Breeders: Any breeder, whether a breeder (hobbyist) or a breeder
(professional), shall not produce more than two (2) litters in any one calendar
year. Professional breeders are not permitted in a residential zoned district.
§ 6-5-12 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer, subject to the general
supervision and regulations of this Chapter, to enforce the provisions hereof.
The Animal Control Officers are, for the purpose of enforcing this Chapter,
clothed with police power and are given the authority to issue citations
against violators hereof.
§ 6-5-13 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter, unless otherwise
provided, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during, or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
6-6-1   Offenses Involving the Person
   
6-6-1-1   Disorderly Conduct
   
6-6-1-2   Assemblages
   
6-6-1-3   Assault, Battery, Fighting
   
6-6-1-4   Open Alcoholic Container Prohibition
   
6-6-1-5   Public Intoxication
   
6-6-1-6   Loitering Prohibited
   
6-6-2   Offenses Involving Property
   
6-6-2-1   Damage to Property
   
6-6-2-2   Trespass
   
6-6-2-3   Shopping Cart Removal
   
6-6-2-4   Theft by Deception
   
6-6-2-5   Removal of Graffiti
   
6-6-2-6   Malicious Mischief
   
6-6-2-7   Theft
   
6-6-2-8   Retail Theft
   
6-6-2-9   Graffiti
   
6-6-3   Offenses Relating to Health, Safety and Welfare
   
6-6-3-1   Obscenity
   
6-6-3-2   Obscene Publications
   
6-6-3-3   Offensive Conduct
   
6-6-3-4   Nude Bathing
   
6-6-3-5   Cannabis and Drug Paraphernalia
   
6-6-3-6   Possession, Sale, Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia; Prohibition;
Exceptions
   
6-6-3-7   Children in Dwelling of Another Without Permission
   
6-6-3-8   Encouraging Delinquency
   
6-6-4   Offenses Involving Advertising
   
6-6-4-1   Unlawful Advertising; Damage to Advertisements
   
6-6-4-2   Medical Advertisements
   
6-6-5   Discharge of Firearms
   
6-6-6   False Alarms
   
6-6-7   Harmful Activity in Flooded Areas
   
6-6-8   Regulations for the Use of Elk Grove Park District Property
   
6-6-9   Penalties
   
6-6-10   Prohibition of Certain Devices in Park District Buildings
§ 6-6-1 OFFENSES INVOLVING THE PERSON.
§ 6-6-1-1 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be a nuisance and, therefore, unlawful for any person to disturb
the peace and quiet of the Village or any portion thereof by disorderly
conduct. Disorderly conduct shall be committed by any person when the
individual knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid in
making a breach of peace; or
   B.   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
   C.   Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence and where the police have made all reasonable efforts to protect the
otherwise peaceful conduct and activity and have requested that said conduct
and activity be stopped and explain the request if there be time; or
   D.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by the
individual to be a peace officer under circumstances where three (3) or more
persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity,
which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm; or
   E.   Assembles with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using force
or violence to disturb the public peace; or
   F.   Appears in any public place manifestly under the influence of alcohol,
narcotics or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the degree that
they may endanger themselves or other persons or property or annoy persons in
their vicinity; or
   G.   Carries in a threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law,
any pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles,
slingshot, an object containing noxious or deleterious liquid or gas or
substance or other dangerous weapon or conceal said weapon on or about the
person or vehicles; or
   H.   Engages in fighting, threatening or tumultuous behavior; or
   I.   Hinders, annoys or molests persons passing along any street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or other place which is open to pedestrian traffic or where the
public is invited to enter; or
   J.   Loiters, sits or stands around the entrance of any church, theater,
public building, store, restaurant or other place of public assemblage in any
manner as to so unreasonably obstruct such entrance; or
   K.   Disturbs, threatens or, in an insolent manner, intentionally damages
any house or vehicle.
   If, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, the posting of signs which state
the prohibition of one or more of the above activities is necessary, the Chief
shall cause the posting of said signs. If these signs are to be placed on
private property, the cost thereof shall be borne by the owners of said
property.
   A person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense.
§ 6-6-1-2 ASSEMBLAGES.
   A.   Disturbing Assemblages: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful assemblage or gathering in the Village.
   B.   Unlawful Assemblages: It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a
member of any disorderly crowd or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful
purpose.
§ 6-6-1-3 ASSAULT, BATTERY, FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any assault or battery or to
fight in any public place in the Village.
§ 6-6-1-4 OPEN ALCOHOLIC CONTAINER PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in possession of an alcoholic
beverage in a public street or other public place; unless the alcoholic
beverage is in its original container with the seal unbroken or unless the
possession is on the premises of an establishment holding a valid Village
liquor license.
§ 6-6-1-5 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition on or
in any street, alley or other public place in the Village.
§ 6-6-1-6 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   A.   A person commits a violation if they loiter or prowl in a place, at a
time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under circumstances
that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the vicinity. Among
the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether alarm is
warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon appearance of a police
officer, refuses to identify himself or herself or manifestly endeavors to
conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight by the person or other
circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest
for an offense under this Section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel
any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by requesting the person to
identify himself or herself and to explain their presence or conduct. No person
shall be convicted of an offense under this Section if the police officer did
not comply with the preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the
explanation given by the person was true and, if it had been believed by the
police officer at the time, would have dispelled the alarm. Any police officer
may arrest any person suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a
warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused
by obtaining a warrant would result in the suspect’s escape.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no
loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to loiter, stand, sit or lie in or
upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk, street, curb, crosswalk, walkway
area, mall or that portion of private property utilized for public use, so as
to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles
thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person to block, obstruct or prevent free
access to the entrance to any building open to the public.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or near any
thoroughfare or place open to the public for the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution. Among the
circumstances which may be considered in determining whether such action is
consistent with the intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to
commit an act of prostitution are that the person is a known prostitute or
panderer and repeatedly beckons, in the attempt to stop or engage male or
female passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor
vehicles by engaging their operators by hailing, waving of arms or other bodily
gestures. The violator’s conduct must be such as to demonstrate a specific
intent to induce, entice, solicit or procure another to commit an act of
prostitution. No arrest shall be made for a violation of this Subsection unless
the arresting officer first affords the person an opportunity to explain their
conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this Subsection C if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
§ 6-6-2 OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY.
§ 6-6-2-1 DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Damage to Property Prohibited: Whoever commits any of the following
acts shall be guilty of an offense of damaging property:
         a.   Knowingly or recklessly damages any property of another without
their consent;
         b.   Knowingly or recklessly by means of fire or explosives damages
the property of another;
         c.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without the
owner’s consent;
         d.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another,
without their consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound.
      Any person violating any of the provisions of this Subsection A1 shall be
subject to a fine of not less than dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and each separate violation
hereof shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to or in lieu of any
penalty above provided, the Circuit Court may order that restitution be made by
the offending party or, if a minor, that restitution be made by a parent or
legal guardian of said minor to the party whose property was damaged.
      2.   Parental Responsibility for Damage to Property:
         a.   Definitions: As used in this Subsection A2, unless the context
otherwise requires, the terms specified have the meanings ascribed to them:
            LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a
minor by a circuit court of this state but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705
ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.).
            MINOR: A person who is not yet eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   Parental Responsibility: The parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility, described below with the knowledge and
permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this Subsection A2 upon
the occurrence of the events described in Subsections A2b(1), A2b(2) and A2b(3)
of this Section:
            (1)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal
guardian shall be adjudicated to be in violation of Subsection A1 of this
Section; and
            (2)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written
notice thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service, with a certificate of personal service
returned, from the Police Department of the Village following said
adjudication; and
            (3)   If at any time within one year following the receipt of the
notice set forth in Subsection A2b(2) of this Section, said minor is
adjudicated to be in violation of Subsection A1 of this Section.
         c.   Penalties: Any person convicted of any violation of the
provisions of this Subsection A2 shall be subject to a fine of not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense, and each separate violation hereof shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   B.   Injury to Public Property: It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure,
deface or interfere with any property belonging to the Village without proper
authority from the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Any person violating the
provisions of this Subsection shall be fined not less than two dollars ($2.00)
nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
Cross-reference:
   Parental responsibility for damage to property, see also Section
6-7-3 of this Title
§ 6-6-2-2 TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within this
municipality upon either public or private property.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of the above
paragraph, any of the following acts by any person shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of the
above paragraph, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or
from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this
Section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows:
   A.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest, given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
   B.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof; or
   C.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   D.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control thereof
or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or watercraft after
being requested to leave by the person having such right; or
   E.   The entry upon or failure of refusal to depart the premises hereinafter
described by any person other than a member or invitee of any of the following
described associations and authorized personnel of the Village for Village
purposes:
      The premises, for purposes hereof, shall include any common area, private
roadways, trails, terraces or parking areas within that area bounded on the
north by Cosman Road between Beisner Road on the west and the lot line
perpendicular to the west end of Walter Street on the east. And, by the north
lot line of the properties facing Burgundy Court between the lot line
perpendicular to the west end of Walter Street and Chelmsford Lane;
      Bounded on the east by Chelmsford Lane between Wellington Avenue and
Stonehaven and the east boundary of properties facing Wellington Avenue between
Chelmsford Lane and Biesterfield Road;
      Bounded on the south by Biesterfield Road between Wellington Avenue and
Leicester Road, and by Gloucester Drive between Leicester Road and Bisner Road;
      Bounded on the west by Leicester Road between Biesterfield Road and
Gloucester Drive, and by Bisner Road between Gloucester Drive and Cosman Road;
      Referred to as the planned unit development area.
      The aforementioned planned unit development area shall be posted at the
main entrances of said premises with an appropriate sign to the following
effect:
 
MEMBERS AND INVITEES
 
ONLY - TRESPASSERS
 
WILL BE PROSECUTED
 
§ 6-6-2-3 SHOPPING CART REMOVAL.
   A.   Definitions: When used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Subsection:
      OWNER: The individual, partnership or corporation which owns the shopping
cart and offers the shopping cart for use to the customers of the owner’s
business establishment.
      PREMISES: The area which the owner of a shopping center has provided for
automobile parking of their customers, which parking area is contiguous to the
owner’s business establishment.
      SHOPPING CART: A mobile device set on four (4) or less wheels, having
storage capacity for up to two hundred (200) pounds and having a handle or bar
by which the device is pushed or maneuvered.
   B.   Removal Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove,
maneuver or place a shopping cart beyond the boundaries of the premises of the
owner of the shopping cart.
   C.   Signs Posted: The owner is required to post signs on the premises, said
sign to contain the provisions of this Section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense.
§ 6-6-2-4 THEFT BY DECEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain possession of any goods,
property or thing of value by any false proceedings or by cheating or fraud of
any kind.
§ 6-6-2-5 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or property manager of real
property upon which graffiti is placed to fail to remove, cover or otherwise
eradicate such graffiti within seven (7) days of a receipt of notice to remove
graffiti by the Village. For the purposes of this Section, the term “graffiti”
shall mean the inscription or marking of any wall, fence, sign, sidewalk,
pavement, post, stone, tree or other natural object; or the inscription or
marking on any building or structure by carving, applying paint or other
substance, or by any other means other than as permitted by the ordinances of
the Village.
§ 6-6-2-6 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or maliciously deposit
or throw any materials upon any dwelling, structure, vehicle or property of
another without lawful consent or permission of the owner.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred dollars and fifty ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-6-2-7 THEFT.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obtain control over
the property having a value of less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) of
another with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of its benefit or use.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obtain control of
property having a value of less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) which has
been stolen by another person or under such circumstances that would reasonably
lead them to believe the property was stolen.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly conceal any property
having a value of less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) knowing that such
concealment will permanently deprive the owner of the use or benefit of such
property.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain control over the lost or
mislaid property of another without taking reasonable measures to return the
property with the intent to permanently deprive the owner of its use or
benefit.
   E.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-6-2-8 RETAIL THEFT.
   A.   A person commits the offense of retail theft when such person
knowingly:
      1.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise with a value of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment, with the intention of retaining such merchandise or
with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use
or benefit of such merchandise, without paying full retail value of such
merchandise;
      2.   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally, or in
consort with another, at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      3.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container, with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-6-2-9 GRAFFITI.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place graffiti upon any
building, fence, wall, gate, tree, structure or other private or public
property within the Village. For purposes of this Section, “graffiti” shall
include any symbol, sign, drawing, marking, painting, sketch, diagram, placed
on any private or public property without the prior consent of the owner.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-6-3 OFFENSES RELATING TO HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE.
§ 6-6-3-1 OBSCENITY.
   A.   Obscenity Prohibited; Interpretation: It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, deliver, offer for sale, distribute, publish, print, exhibit or
possess with intent to distribute, with knowledge of the nature or content
thereof or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would
have disclosed the nature or content thereof, any obscene writing, picture,
moving picture, record or other representation or embodiment of the obscene or
to present or to direct an obscene play or other performance or to perform an
obscene act or otherwise present an obscene exhibition or to advertise or
otherwise promote obscene material.
   A thing shall be deemed to be obscene if the average person would find that
the work taken as a whole appeals to a prurient interest and the work depicts
or describes patently offensive representations or descriptions of nude
persons, ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted sexual conduct, whether
actual or simulated, or patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibition of the human genitals.
The work, taken as a whole, must lack serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   B.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination: 1) was not for gain and was made to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age; 2) was to institutions or
individuals having scientific or other special justification for possession of
such material.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: That which is obscene under this Section is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   D.   Penalties and Seizure of Materials: Any person violating the provisions
of this Section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00); a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues
to occur.
   Upon judicial determination, obscene material shall be seized and disposed
of as contraband. In addition, Village authorities may apply for an injunction
and other relief as necessary to abate the nuisance.
§ 6-6-3-2 OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to expose in any public place or anywhere in view of a
store or place frequented by the public any obscene publications, printed or
written matter or picture or other representation.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by or where it
may come into possession of minors or to disclose or expose any such material
to a minor.
§ 6-6-3-3 OFFENSIVE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on private
property open to public view or on any public way, including but not limited to
any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or public parking lot and/or in any other
public place other than a facility designed for that purpose.
§ 6-6-3-4 NUDE BATHING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
public place or any place open to public view unless such person is adequately
garbed in a bathing suit, which suit must cover the person’s genitals.
§ 6-6-3-5 CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this Section
6-6-3-5 and Section
6-6-3-6 of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed
to them, unless the context requires otherwise:
      CANNABIS: Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act, being 505 ILCS 89/1. CANNABIS also
means and includes for purposes of this Section, cannabis flower, cannabis
concentrate and cannabis-infused product, unless those specific terms are used
separately to differentiate separate regulations for any of them.
      CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization,
as those terms are defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, being 410
ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.
      CANNABIS CONCENTRATE: A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), from the plant
through the use of propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other
typical cooking fats; water ice or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol or
isopropanol and with the intended use of smoking or making a cannabis-infused
product. The use of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless and until
it is approved by the Department of Agriculture.
      CANNABIS CONTAINER: A sealed, traceable, container or package used for
the purpose of containment of cannabis or cannabis-infused product during
transportation.
      CANNABIS FLOWER: Marijuana, hashish and other substances that are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica of all strains of cannabis; including
raw kief, leaves and buds, but not resin that has been extracted from any part
of such plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such plant, its seeds or resin.
      CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT: A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture,
topical formulation or another product containing cannabis, or cannabis
concentrate that is not intended to be smoked.
      CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Equipment, products or materials intended to be
used for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting or otherwise
introducing cannabis into the human body.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section
102 of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being 410 ILCS 705/102, as the
same may be amended from time to time, which statute and definition as the same
may be amended are hereby expressly incorporated herein.
      DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, being 720 ILCS 646/10
and cannabis paraphernalia as defined in this Section
6-6-3-5, which are intended to be used unlawfully in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.; or the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, being 720 ILCS 646/1 et
seq.; or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the
Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, being 410 ILCS 620/1 et seq. It includes,
but is not limited to:
         1.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing a controlled
substance;
         2.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
         3.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private
home for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of a
controlled substance;
         4.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for
cutting a controlled substance by private persons;
         5.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cocaine, a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, into the human body
including but not limited to, where applicable, the following items:
            a.   Water pipes;
            b.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            c.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            d.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            e.   Carburetor pipes;
            f.   Electric pipes;
            g.   Air driven pipes;
            h.   Chillums;
            i.   Bongs;
            j.   Ice pipes or chillers; or
            k.   Any item whose purpose, as accounted or described to the
possessor, or whose actual use as determined by the presence of a controlled
substance on, in or near the item, is for use in violating the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act (ILCS Chapter 720, Act 570, Sections 100 et seq.);
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act (ILCS 720 Chapter 646,
Sections 100 et seq.); or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act
620, Sections 1 et seq.) or any similar law or local ordinance.
         6.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller,
is for use in violation of this Section
6-6-3-7.
      PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. PUBLIC PLACE includes all parts of buildings owned in whole
or in part, or leased, by the state or a unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE
includes all areas in a park, recreation area, wildlife area or playground
owned in whole or in part, leased or managed by the state or a unit of local
government. PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence unless the
private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care or other
similar social service care on the premises.
      VILLAGE: Village of Elk Grove Village, Cook and DuPage counties,
Illinois.
   B.   Possession of Cannabis; Prohibition; Exceptions:
      1.   Any person who violates this Section shall be guilty of a civil law
violation and shall be fined in an amount not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to knowingly possess any quantity of any substance containing cannabis,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130,
Sections 1 et seq.).
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is a resident of this state
to knowingly possess cannabis in excess of the following amounts:
         a.   More than thirty (30) grams, but less than one hundred (100)
grams, of cannabis flower;
         b.   Five hundred (500) milligrams tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in
cannabis-infused products; and
         c.   Five (5) grams cannabis concentrate.
      The possession limits contained herein are to be considered cumulative.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a resident of this
state to knowingly possess in excess of the following amounts:
         a.   More than fifteen (15) grams, but less than one hundred (100)
grams, of cannabis flower;
         b.   Two hundred fifty (250) milligrams tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in
cannabis-infused products; and
         c.   Two and one half (2.5) grams cannabis concentrate.
      The possession limits contained herein are to be considered cumulative.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess cannabis, as follows:
         a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act
(ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130, Sections 1 et seq.);
         b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130,
Sections 1 et seq.);
         c.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         d.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use cannabis, as follows:
         a.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act
(ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130, Sections 1 et seq.);
         b.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130,
Sections 1 et seq.);
         c.   In any motor vehicle;
         d.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         e.   In any public place; or
         f.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130,
Sections 1 et seq.);
      7.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis in any place
where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act, being 410 ILCS
82/1.
      8.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit their
residence or any other private property under their control to permit the
consumption of cannabis by a person under the age of twenty-one (21), unless
permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410, Act 130, Sections 100 et
seq.).
   C.   Manufacture or Delivery of Cannabis:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to facilitate the use of
cannabis by any person who is prohibited to use cannabis under the provisions
of this Code, the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, being 410 ILCS 705-1-1 et
seq. or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter
410, Act 130, Sections 1 et seq.).
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer cannabis to any
person contrary to the provisions of this code, the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter 410,
Act 130, Sections 1 et seq.)
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person permitted to cultivate cannabis
pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (ILCS Chapter
410, Act 130, Sections 1 et seq.) to cultivate in excess of five (5) plants
that are more than five inches (5") tall, per household, to cultivate cannabis
in a place that is not an enclosed, locked space or to store cannabis plants in
a location that is subject to ordinary public view.
   D.   Production of Cannabis Sativa Plant: It is unlawful for any person
knowingly to produce the cannabis sativa plant or to possess such plants unless
production or possession has been authorized pursuant to state law.
§ 6-6-3-6 POSSESSION, SALE, DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA; PROHIBITION;
EXCEPTIONS.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to knowingly possess an item of drug paraphernalia
with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing a
controlled substance into the human body. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of twenty-one (21) years to knowingly possess an item of drug
paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body.
      1.   In determining use or intent under this Section, the trier of fact
may take into consideration the general, usual customary and historical use to
which the item involved has been put, and the proximity of the cannabis or
controlled substance or such residue to the drug paraphernalia.
   B.   The following items shall be exempt from this Section.
      1.   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to
lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis, and not for sale.
      2.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, preparing, testing,
analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting,
ingesting or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance, including but
not limited to garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes and
cigarette-rolling papers.
      3.   Items which are marketed for decorative purposes when such items
have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any
illicit purpose prohibited by this Section.
      4.   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
division, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
         a.   The general, customary and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         e.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates this Section shall be guilty of a
civil law violation and shall be fined in an amount not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense.
§ 6-6-3-7 ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, by act or neglect, to encourage,
aid or cause any child to violate any municipal ordinance.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 6-6-4 OFFENSES INVOLVING ADVERTISING.
§ 6-6-4-1 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING; DAMAGE TO ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in the
Village, and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement
or notice.
§ 6-6-4-2 MEDICAL ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by themself or their agents, to
distribute, cast, throw or place or cause to be distributed, cast, thrown or
placed in, upon or along any of the streets, alleys or other public places of
the Village or upon the porches or yards of private residences therein or
within any dwelling or building in the Village any samples of merchandise or
medicinal preparations for the purpose or with the intent of advertising or
making known in a general or promiscuous manner any business, occupation,
proposition, medical treatment, medicine or other article whatsoever.
§ 6-6-5 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air gun in the Village;
provided, that this Section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of their duty nor to any
citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending their person or
property.
§ 6-6-6 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarm in the Village. (See Title 3, Chapter 12 of this Code.)
§ 6-6-7 HARMFUL ACTIVITY IN FLOODED AREAS.
   It shall be a nuisance and, therefore, unlawful for any person to wade, swim
or otherwise traverse by boat, canoe, raft or other device or otherwise enter
into or on flooded areas in the Village, unless such activity is necessary for
the protection or preservation of life or property.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Title 8, Chapter 10 of this Code
§ 6-6-8 REGULATIONS FOR THE USE OF ELK GROVE PARK DISTRICT PROPERTY.
   A.   Animals: No person shall bring any nondomesticated animal into any
park. No person shall bring any domesticated animal into any park except when
under control by said person and on a leash not to exceed fifteen feet (15') in
length. No person shall permit any dog or other domesticated animal when
brought into any park as permitted as aforesaid, to disturb, interfere with,
bite or assault any person or animal in said park. No person shall bring a dog
or other domesticated animal into any park unless such person shall be carrying
with them a visible means for removal of its excrement and unless such person
shall immediately remove such excrement from said park or dispose of it in an
appropriate trash receptacle.
   B.   Weapons; Missiles:
      1.   All persons are forbidden from throwing stones or rocks in any
public park in the Village.
      2.   No person shall use a BB gun, slingshot or other device propelling a
missile in any Village park.
   C.   Motor Vehicles: No person shall drive or ride in a motor driven vehicle
in any public park in the Village unless authorized by the park district.
   D.   Liquor; Intoxicated Persons: No intoxicated person shall enter, be or
remain in any public park, nor shall any person bring into, sell, give away or
drink any alcoholic beverage in any public park in the Village.
   E.   Golf; Bows and Arrows: No person shall play golf or propel a golf ball
or use bows and arrows in any public park in the Village.
   F.   Skating and Bicycling:
      1.   Prohibited: No person shall skateboard, rollerblade or bicycle
within any designated tennis court area in any public park in the Village.
      2.   Penalty: Any person violating this Subsection F shall be subject to
a fine of not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   G.   Lions Park Parking Lot Regulations:
      1.   Hours: Except on days when Elk Grove High School is not in session,
it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in the Lions Park Parking Lot for more
than two (2) hours between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) P.M. and four
o’clock (4:00) P.M. as designated and marked by signage referencing said
regulations.
      2.   Penalty/Permit Fee Credit: Any person violating the provisions of
this Subsection G shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. Pursuant to Subsection
1-4-4-1C of this Code, any ticket issued will be for the minimum fee of twenty-
five dollars ($25.00). This fee, if paid by an Elk Grove High School student
eligible to buy a permit to park in the high school lot, can serve as a credit
toward the two hundred dollar ($200.00) permit fee, provided that the permit is
purchased within seven (7) days from the date the “P” ticket is issued. Only
one credit can be utilized for each vehicle for which a high school parking lot
permit is purchased.
§ 6-6-9 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter in which a
separate penalty is not provided shall be subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
§ 6-6-10 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN DEVICES IN PARK DISTRICT BUILDINGS.
   A.   Equipment Prohibited: No person shall use: 1) any electronic,
mechanical, manual, electric, digital, voltaic or other device, instrument or
means capable of recording, producing, duplicating, reproducing, storing,
copying, transmitting or displaying any visual, video, photographic,
electronic, digital, recorded or other visual image, picture or representation,
including, but not limited to, any camera, photographic camera, video camera,
fiber optic camera, motion picture camera, television camera, camcorder or
videotaping device, or 2) any cellphone of any type or kind regardless of its
capacity or lack thereof to produce a visual image, in any restroom, locker
room, lavatory, bathroom, shower facility or dressing room, in any building
owned, leased to or under the control of the Park District.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating or disobeying any provision of this
ordinance shall be subject to a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 7: OFFENSES RELATED TO MINORS
Section
   
6-7-1   Curfew for Minors
   
6-7-2   Truancy
   
6-7-3   Parental Neglect of Minors
   
6-7-4   Electronic Dissemination of Visual Depictions (Sexting)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see also Subsection
6-6-2-1 A2 of this Title.
§ 6-7-1 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
      EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN:
         1.   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
         2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
      MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
      PARENT: A person who is:
         1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another
person; or
         2.   At least twenty-one (21) years of age and authorized by a parent
or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   B.   Age and Hour Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any “minor”, as
defined herein, to be upon any public way, public place, street, establishment
or roadway during the following times:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) A.M. and six o’clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o’clock (12:01) A.M. and six o’clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between one minute after eleven o’clock (11:01) P.M. on Sunday
through Thursday inclusive and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   C.   Defenses: It shall be a defense to prosecution under this Section that
the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian
without any detours or stops;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning from an
employment activity, without any detours or stops;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On a sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the next
door neighbor if the next door neighbor does not complain to the Police
Department about the minor’s presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by any governmental body having
jurisdiction within the corporate limits of the Village of Elk Grove Village; a
civic organization or similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or transporting the minor to and from the activity and home without any detour
or stop, or any other official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by any governmental entity having
jurisdiction within the corporate boundaries of the Village of Elk Grove
Village, a civic organization or similar entity that takes responsibility for a
minor;
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly;
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Mature Minor’s Act, being 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq., as amended.
   D.   Pre-Citation Inquiry: Before issuing a citation or making an arrest
under this Section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and
the reason that the apparent offender is in a public place or establishment or
other prohibited location. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this Section unless the officer reasonably believes, based upon
the totality of the circumstances, that an offense has occurred and that no
defense set forth in Subsection C of this Section is present.
   E.   Enforcement: Any duly authorized law enforcement officer of the Village
who has arrested or charged a minor or minors with violating the provisions of
this Section may cause a written notice to be served upon the parent, guardian
or legal custodian of such minor or minors, setting forth the nature of the
violation and advising that any subsequent arrests of said minor or minors may
result in prosecution of the parent, guardian or legal custodian as provided in
Subsection F of this Section.
   F.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian
or legal custodian of a minor or minors who has violated the provisions of
Subsection B of this Section to, within a period of one year from the receipt
of notice as provided in Subsection E of this Section knowingly permits such
minor or minors to violate the provisions of said Subsection B of this Section.
   G.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a fine of not less fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
§ 6-7-2 TRUANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) enrolled
in a public, private or parochial school within the corporate limits of the
Village to absent themself from attendance at school, during such period when
school is in session, without parental permission or valid cause.
   A valid cause for absence from school shall include illness, death in the
immediate family, other family emergencies or other causes beyond the control
of the person so absenting themself from school; provided, that parental
permission for absence due to such cause is obtained, in writing, from the
parent or legal guardian and is submitted to the proper school authorities
within twenty-four (24) hours after such absence.
   Parental permission, as required by this Section, shall refer to and include
permission obtained from a parent, legal guardian or other adult person
standing in local parentis and having custody and control over a person under
the age of eighteen (18).
   Any person who shall so absent themself from school attendance without valid
cause or parental permission as provided herein shall be guilty of the offense
of truancy and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense, and each day that such person shall absent themself from
school attendance shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 6-7-3 PARENTAL NEGLECT OF MINORS.
   A.   Definitions: When used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Subsection:
      CRIMINAL ACTS: The intentional commission of an act or acts which violate
the statutes of the State of Illinois or the ordinances of the Village.
      HABITUAL OFFENDER: One who, within a one year period, is convicted of the
intentional commission of three (3) or more acts which violate the statutes of
the State of Illinois or the ordinances of the Village.
      MINOR: Any juvenile under the age of eighteen (18).
      PARENT: The mother, father, legal guardian or any adult authorized and
assuming exercise of the care or custody of a minor.
   B.   Parental Neglect Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for a resident of the
Village, as a parent of a minor residing with said parent, to fail to exercise
reasonable parental control which results in the minor being convicted of the
commission of “criminal acts”, as herein defined or allow the minor to become
delinquent in accordance with the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 as defined by the
statutes of the State of Illinois (705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.).
   C.   Notice of Child Arrest: Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained
for the commission of any criminal act within the Village, the Village Police
Department shall immediately notify the parent of such minor and advise the
parent of such arrest or detention, the reason therefor and their
responsibility under this Section. A record of such notification shall be kept
by the Elk Grove Village Police Department.
   D.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of parental neglect, as defined
herein, shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) or sentenced to a penal institution other than the
penitentiary for a term of not more than ninety (90) days.
§ 6-7-4 ELECTRONIC DISSEMINATION OF VISUAL DEPICTIONS (SEXTING).
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
      COMPUTER: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Section 17-0.5 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 2012.
      ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICE: Means an electronic device, including
but not limited to, a wireless telephone, personal digital assistant or a
portable or mobile computer, that is capable of transmitting images or
pictures.
      INDECENT VISUAL DEPICTION: Means a depiction or portrayal in any pose,
posture or setting involving a lewd exhibition of the unclothed or
transparently clothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if such person is
female, a fully or partially developed breast of the person.
      MINOR: Means a person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   A minor shall not solicit, possess, distribute or disseminate an
indecent visual depiction of another minor through the use of a computer or
electronic communication device.
   C.   A minor does not violate this paragraph if all of the following apply:
      1.   The minor did not solicit the photograph or video;
      2.   The minor took reasonable steps to report the photograph or video to
a school or law enforcement official; and
      3.   The minor did not transmit or distribute the photograph or a video
to a third party other than a law enforcement official.
   D.   Penalty. Any person violating this Section shall be subject to:
      1.   A mandatory fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00),
plus administrative costs, or more than seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00), plus administrative costs; or
      2.   Ordered to obtain counseling or other supportive services to address
the acts; or
      3.   Ordered to perform community service.
   E.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit a prosecution
for disorderly conduct, child pornography, a violation of Article 26.5
Harassing and Obscene Communications of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012 (720
ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.) or any other applicable provision of law.
CHAPTER 8: GAMBLING
Section
   
6-8-1   Gambling Defined
   
6-8-2   Exemptions
   
6-8-3   Raffles
   
6-8-4   Penalty
§ 6-8-1 GAMBLING DEFINED.
   A person commits gambling when they:
   A.   Play a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in Section
6-8-2 of this Chapter; or
   B.   Make a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
   C.   Operate, keep, own, use, purchase, exhibit, rent, sells bargain for the
sale or lease of, manufacture or distribute any gambling device; or
   D.   Contract to have or give themself or another the option to buy or sell,
or contract to buy or sell, at a future time any grain or other commodity
whatsoever or any stock or security of any company where it is, at the time of
making such contract, intended by both parties thereto that the contract to buy
or sell or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract resulting therefrom
shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such property, but by the
payment only of differences in prices thereof; however, the issuance, purchase,
sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee by or through a person registered with
the Secretary of State pursuant to Section 8 of the Illinois Securities Law of
1953, being 815 ILCS 5/8, or by or through a person exempt from such
registration under said Section 8 of a put, call or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under Section 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of
1953, being 815 ILCS 5/3, is not gambling within the meaning of this
Subsection; or
   E.   Knowingly own or possess any book, instrument or apparatus by means of
which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered or knowingly
possess any money which they have received in the course of a bet or wager; or
   F.   Sell or pool upon the result of any game or contest of skill or chance,
political nomination, appointment or election; or
   G.   Set up or promote any lottery or sell, offer to sell or transfer any
ticket or share for any lottery with the exception of the lottery lawfully
operated by the State of Illinois and its authorized agents; or
   H.   Set up or promote any policy game or sell, offer to sell or knowingly
possess or transfer any policy ticket, slip, record, document or other similar
device; or
   I.   Knowingly advertise any lottery or policy game or draft, print or
publish any lottery ticket or share or any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or similar device or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game;
or
   J.   Knowingly transmit information as to wagers, betting odds or changes in
betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar means or
knowingly install or maintain equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except, that nothing in this Subsection prohibits transmission or
receipt of such information for the use in news reporting of sporting events or
contents.
§ 6-8-2 EXEMPTIONS.
   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted of
gambling:
   A.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation to, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life
or health or accident insurance; and
   B.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in a
bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or endurance
or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest; and
   C.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state; and
   D.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of essential
parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in interstate or
foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such transportation is
not prohibited by any applicable federal law; and
   E.   The game commonly known as “bingo” when conducted in accordance the
Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.); and
   F.   Charitable games when organized and conducted in accordance with the
Illinois “Charitable Games Act” (230 ILCS 30/1); and
   G.   Video gaming as authorized by and pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming
Act (230 ILCS 40/1).
§ 6-8-3 RAFFLES.
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of the Village.
      CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to
benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those
eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
      EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to
provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common
to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorable in their scope
and intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
      FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the
primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens
of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
      LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective
of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
      NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
      NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a
not for profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of
the operation.
      RAFFLE: A form of lottery, in which:
         1.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
         2.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for
the purpose of religious worship.
      VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
   B.   License Required; Application:
      1.   No organization within the Village shall operate a raffle without
first having secured a license pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection B.
The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). The maximum number of days during which
the chances may be issued or sold shall be three hundred sixty-five (365) days.
As a result of the charitable nature of eligible organizations, the fee for
each license shall be deemed waived for each and every applicant.
      2.   Any person desiring to secure a license to conduct a raffle pursuant
to the provisions of this Subsection B shall make an application to the Village
Clerk upon a form provided by the Village. The Village Clerk shall act upon all
such applications within thirty (30) days from the date of application. Appeals
to any denials by the Village Clerk to an application shall be made to the
Village Manager within five (5) days of the receipt of notification of denial.
The Village Manager shall render the final decision on an appeal within thirty
(30) days from receipt of the appeal.
      3.   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, education, veterans’ or business organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a
license and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives.
      4.   The license and application for license must specify the area or
areas within the Village in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the
time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time or
determination of winning chances and the location or locations at which winning
chances will be determined.
      5.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not for profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by
the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization or the manager of
the raffle.
      6.   The following are ineligible for any license under this Section:
         a.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
         b.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
         c.   Any person or organization failing to comply with any of the
provisions of the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et
seq.).
   C.   Restrictions: The conducting of raffles is subject to all of the
provisions of the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/4, 15/5 as
amended). As a condition of an Elk Grove Village raffle license, it is
incumbent upon each applicant for a raffle license to familiarize themselves
with and abide by the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act and any restrictions,
requirements, changes or amendments to said Act.
   D.   Raffles; Manager: All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be
under the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the
organization.
   E.   Records: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances
shall keep a complete record of charitable games conducted within the previous
three (3) years.
   F.   Compliance with State Statute: All raffles licensed under the
provisions of this Section must be conducted in accordance with the Illinois
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.).
   G.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates the provisions of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation, and
a separate violation shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs.
§ 6-8-4 PENALTY.
   A person convicted of gambling will be fined up to five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the first occurrence and the penalty for the second offense will
be up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
CHAPTER 9: ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN PROPERTY
Section
   
6-9-1   Application of Provisions
   
6-9-2   Return of Abandoned, Lost or Stolen Property
   
6-9-3   Sale of Unclaimed Property; Proceeds
   
6-9-4   Recovery of Property by Owner
§ 6-9-1 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this Chapter are applicable to all personal property of
which possession is transferred to the Police Department of the Village under
circumstances supporting the reasonable belief that such property was
abandoned, lost or stolen or otherwise illegally possessed, except property
seized during a search and retained and ultimately returned, destroyed or
otherwise disposed of pursuant to an order of a judge or court in accordance
with State statutes.
§ 6-9-2 RETURN OF ABANDONED, LOST OR STOLEN PROPERTY.
   Such property believed to be abandoned, lost or stolen or otherwise
illegally possessed shall be retained in custody by the Chief of Police or
their designated agent who shall make a reasonable inquiry to identify and
notify the owner or other person entitled to possession thereof and shall
return the property after such person provides reasonable and satisfactory
proof of their ownership or right to possession and reimburse the Police
Department for all reasonable expenses of such custody.
§ 6-9-3 SALE OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; PROCEEDS.
   If the identity or location of the owner or other person entitled to
possession of the property has not been ascertained within three (3) months
after the Police Department obtains such possession, the Chief of Police or
their designated agent shall effectuate the sale of the property for cash to
the highest bidder at a public auction, notice of which (including time, place
and a brief description of such property) shall be published at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least ten (10) days prior to
such auction. Property offered but not sold at such public auction may be
offered and sold at a subsequent public auction without such notice.
   Proceeds of the sale of the property at public auction, less any
reimbursement to the Police Department for the reasonable expenses of custody
thereof, shall be deposited in the general corporate fund of the Village.
§ 6-9-4 RECOVERY OF PROPERTY BY OWNER.
   The owner or other person entitled to possession of such property may claim
and recover possession of the property at any time before its sale at public
auction upon providing reasonable and satisfactory proof of ownership or right
to possession and reimbursing the Police Department for any reasonable expenses
of custody thereof.
CHAPTER 10: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
6-10-1   Sound Amplifiers
§ 6-10-1 SOUND AMPLIFIERS.
   A.   License Requirements:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate on the Village
streets any mobile loudspeaker or amplifier connected with any radio,
microphone, phonograph or any other mechanism or device for the intensification
or magnification of the human voice or of any other sound which may be heard
over any public street or public place without first having secured a license
therefor.
      2.   Application for License: Any person desiring a license for the use
or operation of such a device shall file an application therefor with the
Village Clerk upon a form provided by the Clerk setting forth the name and
address of the applicant, the name of the owner of such device, the date upon
which it is intended to be used and such other information as may be
prescribed. Such license shall issue upon payment of the license fee, as
provided herein, to the Finance Director and shall permit the use of any such
device, subject to the terms and conditions of this Section, only upon the date
specified in such license and no other.
      3.   Fees: The fee for such licenses shall be $50.00 for one day.
   B.   Hours and Location of Use:
      1.   Hours Prohibited: No licensee shall use, operate or employ any such
device within the Village limits on Sundays or after the hour of seven o’clock
(7:00) P.M., prevailing time, of any day or before the hour of seven o’clock
(7:00) A.M., prevailing time, of any day.
      2.   Location Restrictions: No licensee shall use, operate or employ such
device within a radius of two (2) blocks from any church while services are
being held therein nor within two (2) blocks of any hospital.
      3.   Exceptions: This Subsection shall not apply to radios in private
pleasure vehicles when the same are operated in such a manner as not to be
audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from such vehicle, nor to noise
devices, bands or other musical devices used in any public parade or procession
which is operated under a permit in accordance with the ordinances of the
Village. (See Title 3, Chapter 4, Article A of this Code.)
   C.   Obscene, Illegal Advertising Prohibited: No licensee shall cause or
permit to be emanated or emitted from any such device any lewd, obscene,
profane or indecent language or sounds or any false representation of any
matter, product or project advertised thereby, the sale of which is prohibited
by any law, ordinance or statute.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
CHAPTER 11: REGULATION OF THE SALE AND USE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS
Section
   
6-11-1   Definitions
   
6-11-2   Unlawful Sale of Handguns
   
6-11-3   Unlawful Sale of Handgun Styled B-B or Pellet Guns
   
6-11-4   Unlawful Transportation of B-B or Pellet Guns
   
6-11-5   Minimum Age Requirement for the Purchase of B-B or Pellet Guns
   
6-11-6   Unlawful Discharge of Firearms, B-B Guns or Pellet Guns
   
6-11-7   Penalty
§ 6-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   B-B/PELLET GUN: Any pneumatic gun, spring gun, B-B gun or comparable type
weapon which expels a single globular projectile not exceeding .18 inches in
diameter.
   FIREARM: Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas.
   HANDGUN: A pistol, revolver or firearm which:
      A.   Is intended to be fired while held in one hand; or
      B.   Has a barrel of less than fifteen inches (15"); or
      C.   Is of such size which may be concealed upon the person.
§ 6-11-2 UNLAWFUL SALE OF HANDGUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for
sale, trade or otherwise commercially deal in handguns as defined herein,
provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to the following:
   A.   The importation, exportation or wholesale sale of handguns.
   B.   Antique handguns which the Department of Law Enforcement of the State
finds by reason of the date of its manufacture, value, design or other
characteristics is primarily a collector’s item and is not likely to be used as
a weapon.
§ 6-11-3 UNLAWFUL SALE OF HANDGUN STYLED B-B OR PELLET GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for
sale, trade or otherwise commercially deal in handgun styled or sized B-B or
pellet guns provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to the
importation, exportation or wholesale sale thereof.
§ 6-11-4 UNLAWFUL TRANSPORTATION OF B-B OR PELLET GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport or permit the
transportation of B-B or pellet guns in any motor vehicle where the gun is
located in an area accessible to any occupant of said motor vehicle. In the
case of a motor vehicle wherein all areas are accessible to any occupant, the
transportation of any unloaded B-B or pellet gun in an enclosed case shall not
be deemed to be in violation of this Section.
§ 6-11-5 MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT FOR THE PURCHASE OF B-B OR PELLET GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
purchase a B-B or pellet gun within the corporate limits of the Village, or for
any person, firm or corporation to sell or cause the sale of a B-B or pellet
gun to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
§ 6-11-6 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, B-B GUNS OR PELLET GUNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, B-B gun or
pellet gun in the Village, provided that this Section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of their duty.
§ 6-11-7 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In
addition, the Police Department is authorized to confiscate any and all
handguns, B-B or pellet guns from any person, firm or corporation arrested for
violating any of the provisions of this Chapter and retain same until further
directed by order of Court.
CHAPTER 12: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 13: VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
6-13-1   Violations Authorizing Seizure
   
6-13-2   General Regulations
   
6-13-3   Notice
   
6-13-4   Preliminary Hearing
   
6-13-5   Hearing
   
6-13-6   Administrative Penalty
   
6-13-7   Vehicle Possession
   
6-13-8   Administrative Adjudicator
§ 6-13-1 VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING SEIZURE.
   A motor vehicle that is used in connection with any of the following
violations shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the Village, and the
owner of record of the vehicle, or the agents of that owner, shall be liable to
the Village for administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00), plus any applicable towing and storage charges:
   A.   Operation of use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to Section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2021, being 720 ILCS
5/36-1, and any amendments thereof, which includes, but is not limited to:
first degree murder, involuntary manslaughter and reckless homicide, aggravated
kidnaping, criminal sexual assault, aggravated criminal sexual assault,
predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, criminal sexual abuse, aggravated
criminal sexual abuse, indecent solicitation of a child, child pornography,
aggravated battery, stalking, aggravated stalking, retail theft, armed robbery,
burglary, possession of burglary tools, residential burglary, arson, possession
of explosives or explosive or incendiary devices, unlawful use of weapons,
aggravated discharge of a firearm, reckless discharge of a firearm, gambling or
possession of a deadly substance; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, in violation of
Section 11-501 of the IVC; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, 720
ILCS 550/1 et seq., and any amendments thereof; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/101 et seq., and any amendments thereof; or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 (unlawful use of
weapons), 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm) or 720 ILCS 5/24-
3.1 (unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition) and any amendments
thereof; or
   F.   Driving while a driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to Section 6-303 of the IVC,
except that a motor vehicle shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if
the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure
to comply with emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act and any
amendments thereof; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a Circuit Clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated Sections 6-303 (driving while driver’s license, permit
or privilege is suspended or revoked) or 11-501 (driving while under the
influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds
or any combination thereof) of the IVC; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 of the Criminal Code
of 2012 (Theft and Related Offenses) and any amendments thereof; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-503
(reckless driving and aggravated reckless driving) of the IVC; or
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of Section 11-506
(street racing, aggravated street racing or street sideshows) of the IVC; or
   No administrative fees shall be imposed on the registered owner or the
agents of that owner if the motor vehicle was stolen or hijacked at the time
the vehicle was impounded. To demonstrate that the motor vehicle was hijacked
or stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the agents of the
owner must submit proof that a report concerning the motor vehicle was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
§ 6-13-2 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   A.   This Chapter shall not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state
or federal laws or Village ordinance pertaining to vehicle seizure and
impoundment, and these penalties shall be in addition to any penalties that may
be assessed by a court for any criminal charges.
   B.   This Chapter shall not apply if the vehicle used in the violation was
stolen at that time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty-four (24) hours after the theft was discovered.
   C.   Fees for towing and storage of a vehicle under this Chapter shall be
those approved by the Chief of Police for all towing firms authorized to tow
for the Police Department.
§ 6-13-3 NOTICE.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this Chapter, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
Village. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify any person identifying themself as the owner of the vehicle or any
person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, of the fact of the seizure of the vehicle and of owner’s right to
request a preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted under this
Chapter. Said vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearings
provided for in Section
6-13-4 of this Chapter, unless the owner of the vehicle posts with the Village
a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and pays the towing
and storage charges.
§ 6-13-4 PRELIMINARY HEARING.
   If the owner of record of a vehicle seized pursuant to this Section desires
to appeal the seizure, said owner must make a request for said hearing within
twenty-four (24) hours of the seizure. Said request shall be in writing and
filed with the Chief of Police or their designee who shall conduct such
preliminary hearing within twenty-four (24) hours after receipt of the request
excluding Saturdays, Sundays or Village holidays. All interested persons shall
be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary vehicle
impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing
and hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after
the hearing, the Chief of Police or their designee determines there is probable
cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to this Chapter, they shall order the continued impoundment of the
vehicle as provided in this Chapter unless the owner of the vehicle posts with
the Village a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
pays the towing firms any applicable towing and storage fees. If the Chief of
Police or their designee determines that there is no such probable cause, the
vehicle will be returned without penalty or other fees.
§ 6-13-5 HEARING.
   Within ten (10) days after a vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to
this Chapter, the Village shall notify by certified mail, return receipt
requested, the owner of record of the date, time, and location of a plea
hearing that will be conducted, pursuant to this Chapter. The owner will appear
at a plea hearing and enter a plea of guilty or not guilty. If a plea of guilty
is entered, the case will be disposed of at that time. If the owner pleads not
guilty, a final hearing shall be scheduled and held, unless continued by order
of the Administrative Adjudicator, no later than forty-five (45) days after the
vehicle was seized. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the hearing date,
the Administrative Adjudicator may, at the request of either party, direct
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after the hearing, the
Administrative Adjudicator determines by a preponderance of evidence that the
vehicle was used in connection with a violation set forth in this Chapter, the
Administrative Adjudicator shall enter an order finding the owner of record of
the vehicle civilly liable to the Village for an administrative penalty in an
amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) and requiring
the vehicle to continue to be impounded until the owner pays the administrative
penalty to the Village plus fees to the towing firm for the towing and storage
of the vehicle. If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the
Administrative Adjudicator shall enter a default order in favor of the Village.
If the Administrative Adjudicator finds that no such violation occurred, the
Administrative Adjudicator shall order the immediate return of the owner’s
vehicle or cash bond without fees.
§ 6-13-6 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY.
   If an administrative penalty is imposed pursuant to this Section, such
penalty shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village. If a cash bond
has been posted pursuant to this Chapter, the bond shall be applied to the
penalty. If a vehicle has been impounded when such a penalty is imposed, the
Village may seek to obtain a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment
against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as provided otherwise in this
Chapter, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until the penalty is paid to
the Village and any applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the towing
firm, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the person who
is legally entitled to possess the vehicle or the vehicle is sold or otherwise
disposed of to satisfy a judgment to enforce a lien as provided by law. If the
administrative penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days
after an administrative penalty is imposed against an owner of record who
defaults by failing to appear at the hearing, the vehicle shall be deemed
unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative
penalty and applicable fees are not paid within thirty (30) days after the
expiration of time at which administrative review of the Administrative
Adjudicator’s determination may be sought, or within thirty (30) days after an
action seeking administrative review has been resolved in favor of the Village,
whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed
vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
§ 6-13-7 VEHICLE POSSESSION.
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, no owner, lienholder
or other person shall be legally entitled to take possession of a vehicle
impounded under this Chapter until the administrative penalty and fees
applicable under this Chapter have been paid. However, whenever a person with a
lien of record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if they
agree in writing to refund to the Village the amount of the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lienholders of record,
not to exceed the administrative penalty, plus the applicable fees.
   B.   For purposes of this Chapter, the “owner of record” of a vehicle is the
record titleholder as registered with the Secretary of State, State of
Illinois.
§ 6-13-8 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATOR.
   The Administrative Adjudicator as provided for in this Chapter shall be the
Administrative Adjudicator as set forth in Title 1, Chapter 11 of this Code.
TITLE 7: MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY; WATER AND SEWER
   Chapter
      
1 .   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
      
2 .   WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE
      
3 .   SPECIAL SEWER REGULATIONS
      
4 .   WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT FOR DUPAGE COUNTY PROPERTY
      
5 .   INDUSTRIAL WASTES
CHAPTER 1: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
Section
   
7-1-1   Department Created
   
7-1-2   Director of Public Works
§ 7-1-1 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established a department of the Municipal
government of the Village which shall be known as the Department of Public
Works. Said Department shall consist of the Director of Public Works and such
other employees as designated by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The
Department of Public Works shall be responsible for the maintenance and
operation of the Village water and sewer systems, the public streets and
rights-of-way (see also Section
8-1-3 of this Code for powers of Department of Community Development) and the
maintenance of Village vehicles.
§ 7-1-2 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   There is hereby created the position of Director of Public Works who shall
be appointed by the Village Manager and shall be under the direction and
supervision of the Village Manager. The Director of Public Works shall have the
management and control of all matters and things pertaining to said Department
subject to said control and supervision of the Village Manager.
CHAPTER 2: WATER AND SEWER USE AND SERVICE
Section
   
7-2-1   Water and Sewer Taps
   
7-2-2   Turning on Water
   
7-2-3   Service Pipes
   
7-2-4   Water Meters
   
7-2-5   Rates and Charges
   
7-2-5-1   Water Rates and Charges
   
7-2-5-2   Wastewater Use and Service Charges/Stormwater Management Fee
   
7-2-5-3   Rates and Charges for Property Outside Village
   
7-2-5-4   Bills for Services; Delinquencies
   
7-2-5-5   Revenues
   
7-2-5-6   Access to Records
   
7-2-6   Sewer Use and Service Regulations
   
7-2-7   Water Use Restrictions
   
7-2-8   Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
7-2-9   Private Water Supply
   
7-2-10   Cross Connection Backflow Prevention
   
7-2-11   Annexed and Rezoned Land
   
7-2-12   Availability of Village Water and Sewer Service
   
7-2-13   Inspections, Measurements and Tests
   
7-2-14   Penalties
§ 7-2-1 WATER AND SEWER TAPS.
   No connection to a water or sewer main shall be made without a permit being
issued and twenty-four (24) hours’ notice having been given to the Director of
Community Development. All such connections shall be made under the supervision
of the Director of Community Development, and no connection shall be covered
until the work has been inspected by the Director of Community Development or
their authorized representative, together with a tender of the proper tap-on
and inspection fee in an amount determined by resolution of the Mayor and Board
of Trustees and in accordance with the provisions of Section
8-11B-1-2 and
8-11B-4 of this Code, prior to the issuance of any permit.
   Inspection by closed circuit television shall be required prior to approval
and acceptance by the Village of all sanitary and storm sewers. All costs for
said inspection shall be paid by the developer. The Director of Community
Development shall evaluate the reports and photographs obtained thereby. If
said photographs and evidence show the sewer main to be free from engineering
defect and foreign substance and show that it meets all other approved
engineering standards, the Director of Community Development shall approve the
mains for acceptance by the Village; if not, they shall direct such remedial
activity as is necessary to be done prior to the acceptance of said mains. All
photographs and reports obtained as a result of said inspection shall be the
property of the Village.
§ 7-2-2 TURNING ON WATER.
   A.   Authority: No water from the Village water supply shall be turned on
for service into any premises by any person except upon the order of the
Director of Community Development or their authorized representative.
   B.   Application for Water Turn On: Applications for water and/or sewer
service shall be made, in writing, to the Elk Grove Village Department of
Finance and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by the
ordinances of the Village including provisions contained in this Chapter and in
Sections
8-11B-1-2 and
8-11B-4 of this Code. Failure to file this application may result in
termination of service to the property.
   C.   Deposit:
      1.   Where the property to be served is rented or leased or the applicant
is not the owner of the premises, a deposit for water shall be made with each
such application, this sum to be retained by the Village to ensure payment of
all water and/or sewer charges due the Village. The deposit shall be based on
meter size in accordance with the following schedule:
Meter Size Deposit Required
Meter Size   Deposit Required
5/8"         $50.00
3/4"         $100.00
1"           $150.00
1 1/2"       $200.00
2"           $300.00
3"           $400.00
4" or larger $500.00
 
      2.   A deposit shall also be required in all cases where service is
terminated for nonpayment or delayed payment of water and/or sewer charges as a
guarantee for the payment of future water and sewer bills.
      3.   A customer who has paid all water and sewer charges on or before the
due date for a period of two (2) years would not be required to pay a deposit
upon relocation and/or renting or leasing of additional property within the
Village.
      4.   Deposits will be refunded without interest when a customer has paid
all water and sewer charges on or before the due date of each bill for a period
of two (2) years. When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently,
the deposit, less any amount due the Village for water and/or sewer service,
shall be refunded without interest.
   D.   Plumbing: No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in
which the plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the Village,
provided, however, that water may be turned on for construction work in
unfinished buildings subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 7-2-3 SERVICE PIPES.
   A.   Installation Requirements:
      1.   No water and sewer service shall be installed unless it conforms to
the specifications drawn upon or approved by the Director of Community
Development, a copy of which shall be kept on file in the office of the
Director of Public Works.
      2.   All water and sewer pipes from the mains to the premises served
shall be installed by and at the cost of the owner of the property to be served
on the applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under the
inspection of the Director of Community Development.
   B.   Repairs: All repairs for water and sewer service pipes and plumbing
systems of buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the
premises served. The Village may, in case of an emergency, repair any service
pipes, and if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the
Village by the owner of the premises served.
   C.   Excavations: Excavations for installing water and sewer service pipes
or repairing the same shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions
relating to making excavations in streets (see Title 8, Chapter 7, Article B of
this Code); provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any water and sewer
service pipe in the same excavation with or directly under any drain pipe or
sewer pipe.
   D.   Shut-Off Boxes: Shut-off boxes or services boxes shall be placed on
every service pipe that requires a water meter and shall be located between the
curb line and the sidewalk line where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be
so located that they are easily accessible and shall be protected from frost.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be
subject to the penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter.
§ 7-2-4 WATER METERS.
   A.   Metered Water Required: Each individually owned premise using the
Village water supply must be equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by
the Village or approved by the Village but paid for by the consumer; provided,
that such water service may be supplied by the Village at a flat rate or charge
until such meter may be installed. Before any premises are occupied, a water
meter shall be installed therein as herein required or application made for
such water service at the flat rate or charge until the meter can be installed
or no water shall be furnished such premises.
   B.   Type of Meter: A water meter with automated meter reading technology
approved by the Department of Public Works shall be the designated water meter
for use in the Village.
   C.   Installation of Meters: Meters shall be installed in a readily
accessible location as approved by the Village Department of Public Works.
   An electrical raceway shall be provided for the physical protection and
maintenance of the water meter wiring. This raceway is to be continuous from
the remote head to the inside water meter.
   D.   Reading Meters: The Director of Public Works or their authorized
representative shall read or cause to be read every industrial and commercial
water meter used in the Village at such times as are necessary that the bills
may be sent out at the proper time. The Department of Finance shall read or
cause to be read every residential meter used in the Village at such times as
are necessary that the bills may be sent out at the proper time.
   E.   Testing Meters: Any municipal water meters shall be taken out and
tested upon complaint or request of the consumer. The consumer shall agree, in
writing, at the time that the meter is removed, to pay for such testing if the
meter proves to be within three percent (3%) of being accurate, such fee as
shall be necessary to reimburse the Village for the actual cost of such
testing. Any such fee, if not timely paid, shall be added to the consumer’s
regular water billing and collected in the manner provided herein. If, upon the
testing, the meter is not within three percent (3%) of being accurate, it shall
be repaired and replaced at no expense to the customer.
   F.   Inspections; Meter Replacements: Any water meter installed in or on any
premises using the Village’s water supply may be inspected by the Village to
determine whether said meter conforms to the provisions of this Section or is
otherwise in good operating condition. Any meter which does not meet such
requirements shall be replaced by the Village at the Village’s expense. The
Director of Public Works or their designated agents, bearing proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties in the Village for
the purpose of reading the meter or conducting such inspection, repair or
replacement as necessary.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to permit an inspection of
their premises or premises under their control when said inspection is for the
purpose set forth in this Section.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Subsection shall be
subject to the penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter. In addition to any penalties as set forth herein, any
person who refuses to permit an inspection as herein provided may be subject to
having their water services terminated by the Village until such time as an
inspection is permitted as is required in this Section.
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
subject to the penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter.
§ 7-2-5 RATES AND CHARGES.
§ 7-2-5-1 WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   A.   Connection Charges: All property for which a building permit may
hereafter be issued, except Municipal buildings owned by the Village, which
require a new connection with any mains or pipes, which are or hereafter may be
constructed and used in connection with the Village water system shall pay the
following connection charges:
Meter Size Connection Charge
Meter Size             Connection Charge
5/8 inch (residential) $1,200.00
3/4 inch               $1,500.00
1 inch                 $1,800.00
1 1/2 inch             $4,150.00
2 inch                 $11,700.00
3 inch                 $18,275.00
4 inch                 $24,850.00
6 inch                 $31,000.00
 
   B.   Water Rates Established: All property upon which any building has been
or may hereafter be erected within the corporate limits of the Village, except
Municipal buildings owned by the Village, having a connection with any mains or
pipes which are or hereafter may be constructed and used in connection with the
Village water system, shall pay a basic user rate as follows, which rate shall
become effective as follows:
 
Water Rate per 1,000 Gallons: 9.75
 
   C.   Water for Construction or Temporary Purposes: All nonmetered fire
hydrant water used for new construction shall be billed at a flat rate of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month. All other construction or temporary users
performing work within the Village can obtain water from the public works
facility at twice the basic user rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons
consumed.
   Only contractors and public agencies performing work on public improvements,
who cannot reasonably obtain water from other sources, will be allowed to use
fire hydrants for water. A forty dollar ($40.00) connection charge per hydrant
plus twice the basic user rate will apply.
§ 7-2-5-2 WASTEWATER USE AND SERVICE CHARGES/STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   A.   Wastewater Service Charges:
      1.   Basis for Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
Village shall consist of a basic user charge for operation, maintenance and
replacement. A debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable, may also be
made from time to time.
         a.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters. It shall consist of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs and shall be computed as follows:
            (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
            (2)   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal
sewage strength.
         b.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service of all outstanding debts by the number of
users. Through further divisions, the monthly and quarterly debt service
charges can be computed.
         c.   Surcharge Rate: A surcharge may be levied to users whose
wastewaters exceed the normal concentrations for ammonia nitrogen, BOD and SS
as may be established by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater
Chicago for property serviced by that system or by the Village of Bensenville
for property serviced by that system or by the City of Wood Dale for property
serviced by that system.
      2.   Measurement of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic
user charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption.
         a.   Private Water Source: If the person discharging wastes into the
public sewers procures any part or all of their water from sources other than
the public waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the
public sewers, the person shall install and maintain, at their expense, water
meters of a type approved by the Village for the purpose of determining the
volume of water obtained from these other sources.
         b.   Meters: Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may
be required by the Village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records. Such metering devices shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Village.
         c.   Inspections Permitted: The Village shall have the right to enter
on the property of persons discharging waste into the public sewer system for
the purpose of inspecting any meters located thereon as may be required in
Subsections A2a and A2b of this Section and determining the volume of flow
therefrom.
      3.   Rates and Charges Established:
         a.   Basic User Rate: There is hereby established a basic user rate
for the use of and for the service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
Village of Elk Grove Village, and where applicable, the Village of Bensenville
and the City of Wood Dale. A basic user rate shall be applied to all users of
Elk Grove Village wastewater facilities as follows, which rate shall become
effective as follows:
 
Rates per 1,000 Gallons of Metered Water: $2.25
 
         In addition, users of the Village of Bensenville wastewater facilities
shall pay a capital expenditure reimbursement charge as established from time
to time for Elk Grove Village’s share of capital improvements to Bensenville’s
wastewater system based on Elk Grove Village’s proportionate share of these
expenditures as charged by Bensenville, as well as the rate as established from
time to time by the Village of Bensenville, which may include a basic user
rate, a debt service charge and/or a surcharge rate.
         b.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge is not presently
charged. The Village may, if the need arises, establish a debt service charge
sufficient to comply with the terms and provisions of legally established
indebtedness documents.
         c.   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for ammonia nitrogen, BOD
and SS shall be as established by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago for property serviced by that system and by the Village of
Bensenville for property serviced by that system (see Chapter 4 of this Title)
or by the City of Wood Dale for property serviced by that system.
      4.   Computation of Charges:
         a.   Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge shall be
computed by the following formula:
            CW = Vu x CU
            Where CW = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing
period.
            Vu = Wastewater volume in 1,000 gallon units for the billing
period.
            CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement.
         Each sanitary sewer user in the Village shall be notified, at least
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which is attributable to wastewater services as provided by
the Village.
         b.   Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for computing
surcharges shall be established by the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District
of Greater Chicago for property serviced by that system and by the Village of
Bensenville for property serviced by that system or by the City of Wood Dale
for property serviced by that system.
      5.   Review of Service Charges: The adequacy of the wastewater service
charge shall be reviewed annually by the Village Director of Finance. All
sewage system costs shall be audited annually by a certified public accountant.
The audit shall be available for inspection by any party during normal business
hours.
      The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a
change in debt service, surcharge or a change in operation, maintenance and
replacement costs.
   B.   Connection Charges: All property for which a building permit may
hereafter be issued, except Municipal buildings owned by the Village, which
require a new connection with any mains or pipes which are or hereafter may be
constructed and used in connection with the Village sewer system shall pay a
connection charge (see also Subsection
8-11B-1-2E of this Code) as follows:
Meter Size Connection Charge
Meter Size             Connection Charge
5/8 inch (residential) $500.00
3/4 inch               $600.00
1 inch                 $800.00
1 1/2 inch             $1,200.00
2 inch                 $1,600.00
3 inch                 $2,400.00
4 inch                 $3,600.00
6 inch                 $4,800.00
 
   C.   Stormwater Management Fee: The Village has enacted a program with
respect to stormwater flooding and drainage issues. The program, administered
and managed by the Department of Public Works, will coordinate efforts to
reduce structure and street flooding and private property ponding. There is
hereby established a Stormwater Management Fee with the following rates per
meter size:
 
Meter Size Monthly Rate/Meter
3/4 inch   $5.00
1 inch     $10.00
1 1/2 inch $20.00
2 inch     $25.00
3 inch     $30.00
4 inch     $40.00
 
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this Section shall be
subject to the penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter.
§ 7-2-5-3 RATES AND CHARGES FOR PROPERTY OUTSIDE VILLAGE.
   A.   Water Rates: The rates for water services to all property not within
the Village limits upon which any building has been or may hereafter be erected
having a connection with any Village water mains or pipes which presently exist
or may hereafter be constructed shall pay a basic user rate in an amount equal
to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the minimum rates established in Subsection
7-2-5-1B of this Chapter.
   B.   Sewer Rates:
      1.   Metered Users: The rates for sewer services to all property not
within the Village limits upon which any building has been or may hereafter be
erected having a connection with the Village sewer mains or pipes shall pay a
user rate in an amount equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the minimum
rates established in Subsection
7-2-5-2A3 of this Chapter.
      2.   Nonmetered Residential Users: All nonmetered residential users of
the wastewater facilities shall pay an amount equal to one and one-half (1 1/2)
times the estimated water usage of the user. The estimated usage shall be
determined by calculating the average usage of metered users within the
Village. The average usage for residential users is eleven thousand five
hundred forty-four (11,544) gallons per month.
   C.   Connection Charges: All residential property for which a building
permit may hereafter be issued which requires a new connection with any main or
pipes which are or hereafter may be constructed and used in connection with the
Village water system shall pay a connection charge in the amount of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for a five-eighths inch (5/8") connection or two
thousand four hundred dollars ($2,400.00) for a three-fourths inch (3/4")
connection.
§ 7-2-5-4 BILLS FOR SERVICES; DELINQUENCIES.
   A.   Rendition of Bills: Bills for water and sewer service shall be dated
and sent out at such times as may be directed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   B.   Delayed Payment Charge; Returned Checks:
      1.   An additional charge amounting to ten percent (10%) of the bill will
be added to the bill for water and/or sewer service if not paid on or before
the due date of the bill.
      2.   If any check deposited with the Village for payment of the water
and/or sewer bill is returned unpaid from the bank on which it is drawn, an
additional fee shall be charged equal to the current fee assessed for returned
checks by the Village’s depository bank. This fee shall change in accordance
with future returned check fees charged by the bank.
   C.   Nonpayment of Charges; Termination of Service: If any water and/or
sewer bill remains unpaid after the due date, the Finance Department shall
initiate an administrative process to collect all unpaid amounts, which process
includes the shutting off of the water supply for nonpayment. Once the process
has commenced, an administrative fee shall be assessed as well as such other
charges or deposits as are required by the provisions of this Chapter. If the
water supply is shut off, water shall not be turned on again except upon the
payment of the seventy-five dollar ($75.00) administrative fee. If the water
supply is not shut off, due to the customer making payment of the past due
bill, the administrative fee shall be added thereto. Any customer disputing the
correctness of their bill shall have a right to a hearing at which time they
may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of their
choosing and may present orally of in writing their complaint and contentions
to the Village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   D.   Lien for Charges: Charges for water shall be a lien upon the premises
as provided by statute. Whenever a bill for water or sewer service remains
unpaid sixty (60) days after it has been rendered, the Village Attorney or
their designee may file with the recorder of Cook or DuPage County a statement
of lien claim.
   This statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served,
the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the Village claims a lien for
this amount as well as for all charges for water served subsequent to the
period covered by the bill. If the consumer of water and sewer whose bill is
unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the Village Attorney or their
designee has notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises, if their address is known to the Village Attorney or their designee,
whenever such bills remain unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days after it has
been rendered. The failure of the Village Attorney or their designee to record
such lien claim or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive
such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water
and sewer bills as mentioned in Subsection E of this Section.
   E.   Foreclosure of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid water and
sewer charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of
such sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill
in equity in the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized
and directed to institute such proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any
court having jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which
water and sewer bills remained unpaid sixty (60) days after being rendered.
§ 7-2-5-5 REVENUES.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the Village sewerage
system shall be deposited in the waterworks and sewerage fund, a fund separate
and apart from all other Village funds. The accounting records for the
waterworks and sewerage fund shall be maintained on the accrual basis in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and applicable legal
requirements. The accounts for revenues and expenditures will be maintained
separately within the fund for both the water system and the sewer system.
§ 7-2-5-6 ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or their authorized representatives shall have
access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Village which are
applicable to the Village’s system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcription thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the federal regulation and conditions of any federal grant.
§ 7-2-6 SEWER USE AND SERVICE REGULATIONS.
   A.   Use of the Public Sewers Required:
      1.   Disposal of any sewage from premises in the Village in any manner
other than by discharge of the same into the sewerage system of the Village is
hereby declared to be a nuisance; every water closet or privy connected and
used in any building not connected with the sewerage system of the Village is
hereby declared to be a nuisance; provided, this Section shall be inapplicable
to premises where connection with the sewerage system is not feasible. Such
connection with the sewerage system is hereby declared to be feasible as to any
premises abutting any street, alley or other public way or sewer right-of-way
in which any line of the sewerage system of the Village exists or has existed
for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days.
      2.   Every person using premises in the Village from which the disposal
of sewage is necessary shall connect said premises to the sanitary sewerage
system of the Village within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
establishment of sanitary sewerage service to said premises. Such sewerage
service is hereby declared to be established for any premises in the Village
when any line of the sewerage system of the Village is in any street, alley or
other public right-of-way abutting the premises.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges into Storm Sewers: No person shall permit, make
or cause to make a connection or otherwise discharge sanitary sewer water or
industrial wastewater into any storm sewer into the Village.
   C.   Sewerage Facilities Near Municipal Water Supply: All sewerage
facilities within a distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') radially from all
municipal water supply wells shall be constructed and located in conformity
with the minimum requirements of the Department of Public Health of the State
of Illinois.
§ 7-2-7 WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   Use Restricted: All persons who reside or occupy premises in the
Village or purchase water from the Village shall not use the water for
sprinkling lawns, shrubs, trees and gardens, filling private swimming pools or
washing vehicles (except in commercial establishments having approved and
functioning water recycling facilities) with water distributed by the Village
except as follows.
      1.   Residential Users: All residential property owners shall be
permitted to use water for any outdoor purpose between the hours of five
o’clock (5:00) P.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. for odd numbered addresses on
odd numbered calendar dates, and for even numbered addresses on even numbered
calendar dates.
      2.   Industrial, Commercial and Institutional Users: All industrial,
commercial and institutional property occupants shall be permitted to use water
for any outdoor purpose between the hours of five o’clock (5:00) A.M. and ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M. for odd numbered addresses on odd numbered calendar dates
and for even numbered addresses on even numbered calendar dates.
      3.   New Vegetation: Water may be used to establish newly installed or
newly planted lawns having an area greater than one thousand (1,000') square
feet upon issuance of a written permit by the Director of Public Works or their
authorized representative; said permit will be valid for fourteen (14) days and
allow four (4) hours of water usage for the new lawn on each day the permit is
valid. Permits may be renewed for a ten (10) day period. Applications may be
secured from the Director of Public Works or their authorized representative’s
office at 450 E. Devon Avenue between eight thirty o’clock (8:30) A.M. and four
o’clock (4:00) P.M. on Mondays through Fridays. Persons seeking permits for
watering new lawns shall indicate the hours they prefer. The Director of Public
Works or their authorized representative is authorized to issue, to modify, to
reject or to revoke said permits.
      4.   Private Swimming Pools: Water may be used to fill private swimming
pools on days other than above indicated; provided a permit therefor is issued
by the Director of Public Works or their authorized representative. Said permit
shall only be valid for the time and days indicated thereon and applications
may be secured as provided in Subsection A3 of this Section.
      5.   Emergencies: If, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works or
their authorized representative, an emergency exists to the extent that the
Village’s water production, storage or distribution system is unable to meet
the need for water for indoor consumption or usage, public health and/or public
safety purposes, the Director or their authorized representative is authorized
to temporarily suspend or modify the foregoing sprinkling and outdoor usage of
water regulations by giving notice in a newspaper having general circulation
with the Village of such state of emergency and the conditions of temporary
suspension or modification to be imposed. No individual state of emergency
shall be declared for a period longer than seven (7) days, but a separate and
subsequent state of emergency can be declared at the termination of any seven
(7) day period.
   B.   Effect of Use Restrictions: The restrictions on the use of water for
outdoor purposes shall be effective from May 1 through September 30 of each
year.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who uses water or consents to the use of water
other than as provided for above shall be subject to the penalty provided in
Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter. Any person who shall persist in violating the
provisions of this Section after a warning shall be subject to having their or
its water service terminated for a period not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours
and payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the Village for reestablishing water
service.
Editor’s Note:
   The national holidays of Memorial Day, Independence Day and Labor Day are
exempted from the restrictions set forth in this Section.
§ 7-2-8 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Resale of Water: No water shall be resold and distributed by the
recipient thereof from the Village supply to any other premises than that for
which application has been made and the meter installed, except in case of
emergency.
   B.   Tampering with Water and Sewer System:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy or tamper with, alter or injure
any structure, appurtenance, equipment, meter or other part of the Village’s
water and sewer facilities. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly conduct.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, turn on or
damage in any manner any fire hydrant located in the Village.
      Any person violating the provisions of this Subsection B2 shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
§ 7-2-9 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
utilize a water system or well other than the water supply and water services
of the Village. The provisions of this Section shall be applicable to all water
usage including, but not limited to, domestic, commercial and industrial uses
and water for outdoor purposes. The provisions of this Section shall not apply
to private water systems installed prior to September 28, 1982, the use of
which has been previously approved by the Village.
§ 7-2-10 CROSS CONNECTION BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   A.   That all plumbing installed within the Village of Elk Grove, shall be
installed in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
That, if in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of
the Director of Public Works or designated representative, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the Director will give notice to the water customer to install such an
approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at their own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and
as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations.
   B.   That no person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the Village of Elk Grove may enter the supply or distribution
system of said municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been
approved by the Director of Public Works or designated representative and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   C.   That it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works or designated
representative to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial,
institutional, commercial and other properties served by the public water
supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated at least every three (3) years, or as often
as the Director of Public Works or designated representative shall deem
necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review
for a period of at least five (5) years.
   D.   That the Director of Public Works or designated representative shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the Village of
Elk Grove for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-
connections or testing backflow devices or assemblies, and that the Director of
Public Works or designated representative or their authorized agent shall have
the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection
to the public water supply or distribution system of the Village of Elk Grove
for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding
the required cross connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the Director of Public
Works or designated representative any information that they may request
regarding the piping system or systems, or water use on such property. The
refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, in the discretion of the
Director of Public Works or designated representative, be deemed evidence of
the presence of improper connections as provided in this ordinance and shall
require that backflow protection be installed on the service line to the
premises.
   E.   That the Director of Public Works or designated representative is
hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in
violation of the provisions of this ordinance is known to exist, and to take
such other precautionary measures as they may deem necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this Section, and
until a reconnection fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) is paid to the
Village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Director of Public Works or designated representative is assured that imminent
danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such
action shall be followed by written notification of the reason for
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Director
of Public Works or designated representative or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the Village
Director of Public Works, or designated representative or its agents or
assigns, shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer’s water supply in
accordance with the terms of this Section, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice.
   F.   Any person who has knowledge of a backflow into any potable water
system or the public water system must report that backflow to the Water
Department immediately upon becoming aware of the backflow. Any person
responsible for any substance that enters the potable water system through
backpressure or backsiphonage, or contamination through backflow, if
contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an illegal
cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired device, or
a device that has been bypassed, must bear the cost of clean-up of the potable
water supply system.
   G.   The Village of Elk Grove cross connection control policy manual, which
is available for viewing at the Department of Public Works, is hereby
incorporated into this Section by reference.
§ 7-2-11 ANNEXED AND REZONED LAND.
   Future annexation and/or rezoning by the Village will be curtailed if such
annexation and/or rezoning will have a deleterious effect on the water or sewer
systems of the Village, and the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall have and
retain the right to regulate, control and condition annexation and/or rezoning
and building occupancy relating thereto based on the capacity of the water or
sewer systems to adequately and safely provide for same.
§ 7-2-12 AVAILABILITY OF VILLAGE WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   Only property within the Village limits shall be entitled to and receive
Village water and sewer services. Present users without the Village shall have
until October 30, 1971, to provide themselves with such services or other
terminal date as specified in prior written contracts should it extend beyond
said time. After said date, they shall not be entitled to further service.
§ 7-2-13 INSPECTIONS, MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of the
Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties in the Village for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter. The Director of Public Works or their
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries,
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to permit an inspection of
their premises or premises under their control by the Director of Public Works
or their designated agent, any other duly authorized employee of the Village,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or the United States Environmental
Protection Agency when said inspection is for the purpose of enforcement of the
provisions of this Chapter.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to the penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter. In addition to any of said penalties any person who
refuses to permit an inspection of their water service, sewer service, sump
pump system or such other services of the Village’s water and sewer system may
be subject to having their water services terminated by the Village until such
time as an inspection is permitted as is required in this Chapter.
§ 7-2-14 PENALTIES.
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to
a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed herein, any person
violating the provisions of Sections
7-2-1,
7-2-2,
7-2-6A,
7-2-6B,
7-2-8A,
7-2-8B,
7-2-9,
7-2-10 and
7-2-12 of this Chapter shall be subject to having their water services
terminated, suspended or revoked. Notice of the intent by the Village to
terminate, suspend or revoke such service shall be given to any such person at
least fifteen (15) days in advance of the date established for termination, and
a person so notified shall have an opportunity to request, in writing, a
hearing before the Village Manager to show cause as to why their water service
shall not be terminated, suspended or revoked. The notice request must be filed
with the Village Manager no later than five (5) days from the proposed
termination date, and thereafter, the Village Manager shall schedule a hearing
within ten (10) days of the receipt of said notice request. Pending any such
hearing, all water use privileges shall remain in full force and effect,
subject to compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. The Village Manager
shall have the authority during the course of any such hearing to suspend or
revoke water service or to impose such sanctions on the water user short of
suspension or revocation including the collection of unpaid water usage, unpaid
water bills, interest due thereon and such other monetary fines or sanctions
which the Village Manager deems in the best interest of the Village for the
express purpose of enforcing the provisions of the abovementioned Sections.
CHAPTER 3: SPECIAL SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-3-1   Overhead Plumbing
   
7-3-2   Separate Sewer Systems
   
7-3-3   Conflicting Provisions
   
7-3-4   Penalty
§ 7-3-1 OVERHEAD PLUMBING.
   All new buildings with basements, floors, rooms or occupancy areas below
ground level at the building site and served by a public or private sewer
system shall have overhead plumbing.
§ 7-3-2 SEPARATE SEWER SYSTEMS.
   In areas served by separate sewer systems, the following requirements shall
apply.
   A.   Downspouts: All downspouts shall be discharged onto the ground. No
downspouts or roof drains shall be connected to the sanitary sewers.
   B.   Footing Drains: Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and
discharge shall be made into storm sewers or drainage ditches. No footing
drains or drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
   C.   Floor Drains: Floor drains in basements shall be connected to ejector
pumps and discharged to the sanitary sewers.
   D.   Sump Pumps: Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground waters
or other storm waters shall be connected to the storm sewer or discharged into
drainage ditches. Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drain
flow or other sanitary sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer. A sump
pump shall be used for one function only, either the discharge of storm waters
or the discharge of sanitary sewage.
   E.   Completion of Storm Sewer System: The construction of the proposed
storm sewer system shall be completed before the sanitary sewer system is put
in service. When compliance with this requirement may cause undue hardship to
the permittee, the permittee shall so notify the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago, and this requirement may be waived if conditions
warrant and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
shall approve.
§ 7-3-3 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall take precedence when they are in
conflict with existing Village ordinances or sections of the Building
Ordinance. (See Title 8, Chapter 3 of this Code.)
§ 7-3-4 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provided in Subsection
7-2-14A of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 4: WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT FOR DUPAGE COUNTY PROPERTY
Section
   
7-4-1   Pretreatment Regulations
   
7-4-2   Penalties
§ 7-4-1 PRETREATMENT REGULATIONS.
   Bensenville Service Area: There is hereby adopted as and for regulations
with respect to the general pretreatment program regulating use of sewers for
property located in Elk Grove Village within DuPage County and which property
is serviced by the Village of Bensenville’s treatment facility, the ordinance
and regulations duly adopted by the Village of Bensenville on August 15, 1985,
entitled “An Ordinance Enacting a General Pretreatment Program, Regulating Use
of Sewers and Providing Penalties for Violations Thereof”, as amended December
1, 1992, a copy of which are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk of Elk
Grove Village. Elk Grove Village hereby designates the Village of Bensenville
as the primary enforcement authority with respect to the regulations and
provisions as set forth in the ordinance above adopted.
§ 7-4-2 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In addition to the penalties herein stated,
any user of the Bensenville treatment facilities and who is a resident or is
housed in Elk Grove Village may be further subject to such penalties and costs
as are set forth in the Bensenville ordinance adopted by reference herein.
CHAPTER 5: INDUSTRIAL WASTES
Section
   
7-5-1   Village Policy
   
7-5-2   Definition
   
7-5-3   Preliminary Treatment
   
7-5-4   Prohibited Discharges
   
7-5-5   Inspections, Measurements and Analyses
   
7-5-6   Penalties
§ 7-5-1 VILLAGE POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the Village that no sewerage system, which is
planned or designed to discharge into any of the aforesaid waters any
industrial wastes or other wastes that will cause the pollution of such waters,
may be installed unless a written permit for such sewerage system has been
granted by the Village and the respective treatment authority. It shall be the
policy of the Village to admit to its sewage systems those types and quantities
of industrial waste that are not harmful or damaging to the structures,
processes or operation of the sewage systems and are not specifically
prohibited by this Chapter, and it shall be the policy of the Village to
prohibit discharge of industrial wastes which will cause pollution directly
into the waters, watercourses or natural outlets within the boundaries of Elk
Grove Village.
§ 7-5-2 DEFINITION.
   “Industrial wastes”, as used in this Chapter, shall mean both “industrial
wastes” and “other wastes”. The term “other wastes” is included in order to
correspond with language of the statute.
§ 7-5-3 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   Whenever necessary, in the opinion of the Village or the respective
treatment authority, the owner, operator or tenant of any industrial plant or
other establishment discharging or proposing to discharge industrial wastes
into any waters, sewer, watercourse or natural outlet in the Village, at such
owner’s, operator’s or tenant’s expense, shall provide such preliminary
treatment or handling facilities as may be necessary to:
   A.   Reduce or modify the objectionable characteristics or constituents of
such industrial wastes to meet the limits or conditions provided for in Section
7-5-4 of this Chapter and to comply with the pollution restrictions as
indicated in the definition of pollution. (Pollution is defined in 7-5-2 of
this Code.)
   B.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such industrial wastes
over a twenty-four (24) hour day and a seven (7) day week to prevent surge
discharges which may place an unreasonable burden upon the sewage systems of
the Village.
   Before any permit for the construction of preliminary treatment or handling
facilities will be issued, plans, specifications and other pertinent data or
information relating to the proposed preliminary treatment or handling
facilities shall be submitted by the industry for the approval of the Village
and the respective treatment authority.
   The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (MWRD) Sewage
and Waste Control Ordinance (SWCO), effective November 18, 2010, as the same
may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference by the Village of Elk Grove Village, as authority for administration
and enforcement of the industrial waste pretreatment program within areas of
the Village of Elk Grove Village that are subject to the agreement for sewerage
services between the MWRD and the Village of Elk Grove Village and amendments
thereto.
   The requirements of the SWCO are applicable to all industrial waste
discharges within the service areas of the Village of Elk Grove Village in
addition to all local ordinances relating to industrial waste discharges to the
Village’s sewerage system. Where provisions of the SWCO are in conflict with
the provisions of any local ordinances, the more stringent provisions will
apply.
§ 7-5-4 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Board of Trustees pursuant to the
provisions hereof, no person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the
following described wastes or waters into any sewer, watercourse, natural
outlet or waters within the Village:
   A.   Water or wastes to be substantially free of all oils or greases if such
water or wastes are sufficient to: 1) interfere with the biological processes
of a sewage treatment plant; 2) interfere with proper operation of the sewage
works; 3) cause pollution as herein defined.
   B.   Liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or quantity,
are sufficient to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to
the sewage works structures or to the operation of the sewage works.
   C.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or substances which either singly
or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to prevent entry into the
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
   D.   Water or wastes having a pH lower than 4.5 or higher than 10.0 or
having corrosive properties sufficient to cause damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works or interfering with the
proper operation of the sewerage system or sewage treatment works.
   E.   Water or wastes containing toxic substances in quantities which are
sufficient to interfere with the biological processes of the sewage treatment
works.
   F.   Garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
in any dimension.
   G.   Radioactive wastes unless they comply with the Atomic Energy Commission
Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919) as amended and Part 20, Subpart D - Waste Disposal,
Section 20.303, of the regulations issued by the Atomic Energy Commission or
amendments thereto.
   H.   Solid or viscous wastes which cause obstruction to the flow in sewers
or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage system or
sewage treatment works such as grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or
tissues, paunch manure, bone, hair, hides, fleshings, entrails, feathers, sand,
cinders, ashes, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grain, wastepaper, wood, plastic, gas,
tar asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, gasoline, naphtha and similar substances.
   I.   Liquids or vapors having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) at the point of entrance into a public sewer.
§ 7-5-5 INSPECTIONS, MEASUREMENTS AND ANALYSES.
   A.   Inspection Manhole: Any person discharging industrial wastes into a
sewer shall construct and maintain a forty-eight inch (48") inspection manhole
or manholes downstream from any such place of discharge to permit observation,
measurement and samplings of such wastes by the Village or respective treatment
authority. Where no manhole has been constructed or can be constructed, as in
the case of some existing industries, the control manhole shall be considered
to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building sewer is connected.
   B.   Measurements and Tests: The Village shall have the right to enter and
set up, on company property, such devices necessary to conduct a gauging and
sampling operation. While performing the work, the Village shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the Village employees and
the Village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property
by Village employees and shall also indemnify the company to cover liability
claims and demands for personal injury and property damage asserted against the
company which grow out of the gauging and sampling operations or other work of
the Village employees.
   C.   Analyses: All analyses to determine the strength and character of
industrial wastes shall be made in accordance with the latest edition of
“Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage” prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, American Water
Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation. Strength,
character and quantity of wastes shall be based on composite samples taken over
a twenty-four (24) hour or longer period from the flow from all plant outlets
discharging into single public sewer.
§ 7-5-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to
any such penalty, any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be
required to reimburse the Village for all costs incurred by the Village
relating to the cleanup of sanitary sewers following a discharge of prohibited
or illegal material.
TITLE 8: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
   Chapter
      
1 .   DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
      
2 .   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
3 .   BUILDING ACTIVITY CODE
      
4 .   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
5 .   MINIMUM SITE DEVELOPMENT AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
      
6 .   CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
      
7 .   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
8 .   IMPROVEMENTS BY PRIVATE CONTRACT
      
9 .   TREES, SHRUBS AND STREAMBANK PROTECTION
      
10 .   REGULATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
11 .   LAND SUBDIVISIONS
      
12 .   REDEVELOPMENT OF BLIGHTED AREAS
CHAPTER 1: DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
8-1-1   Department Created
   
8-1-2   Director of Community Development
   
8-1-3   Enforcement Authority
§ 8-1-1 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Community Development which shall
consist of a Director of Community Development and such other employees as may
be authorized by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
§ 8-1-2 DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   A.   Position Established; Appointment and Term: There is hereby established
the position of Director of Community Development. The Director of Community
Development shall be appointed by the Village Manager and shall serve at the
Village Manager’s discretion. The Director of Community Development shall have
control and supervision over all offices and employees assigned to the
Department of Community Development, subject to the general direction of the
Village Manager.
   Whenever the term Building Official, Building Commissioner or Director of
Community Development is used in any portion of this Code or of any other
regulatory codes adopted by reference by the Village, said term shall mean the
Director of Community Development. Whenever the term Village Engineer is used
in any portion of this Code or of any other regulatory codes adopted by
reference by the Village, said term shall mean Director or Community
Development or their designee with the appropriate qualifications.
   B.   Duties: The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for:
      1.   The enforcement of all ordinances, codes and regulations of the
Village relating to the construction, repair or alteration of buildings and
structures;
      2.   The enforcement of all ordinances, codes and regulations of the
Village relating to the construction, extension or alteration of public and
private utility improvements;
      3.   All inspections, to ensure compliance with building, zoning, land
use, subdivision and municipal code regulations;
      4.   The maintenance of land use and zoning maps and plats, utility
atlases, as built construction drawings and engineering drawings related to
public and private improvements;
      5.   The preparation of design plans and specifications for the
construction of Village improvement projects;
      6.   Performing such other duties as may be required by the Village
Manager including providing assistance and advice to boards, commissions and
related agencies of the Village.
§ 8-1-3 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Director of Community Development and such inspectors and employees
within the department as designated by the Director of Community Development
are hereby authorized to issue citations, notices to appear in court or
complaints for any violations of Chapters 7, 8, 9 and 10 of this Title and such
other provisions of this Code or other codes previously adopted by reference by
the Village.
CHAPTER 2: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
8-2-1   Plan Adopted
   
8-2-2   Official Map
   
8-2-3   Amendments to Plan
   
8-2-4   Conformance with Plan
   
8-2-5   Enforcement
§ 8-2-1 PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan of the Village is hereby adopted and includes the
following objectives:
   A.   Adequate water supply, sanitary and drainage facilities shall be
constructed and maintained;
   B.   Highways and streets must be of adequate width and be so constructed
and maintained as to avoid the creation of hazardous conditions;
   C.   Railroad crossings and grade separations shall be constructed and
maintained to provide adequate public safety and convenience;
   D.   Landscaping of public and private areas shall be controlled to avoid
the creation of hazardous conditions;
   E.   Locations and architectural design, where applicable, of public
buildings, schools, parks, recreational facilities, parking areas and airports
shall be controlled in accordance with the best public interest.
§ 8-2-2 OFFICIAL MAP.
   The Comprehensive Plan as hereby adopted as a part of the overall plan
consists of the Official Map of the Village, showing the plan of existing
streets and public grounds within the corporate limits of the Village and in
contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond the
Village limits and not included in any municipality and showing certain
improvements which the Village intends to put into execution as and when these
improvements become advisable and feasible.
§ 8-2-3 AMENDMENTS TO PLAN.
   The Plan Commission (see Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code) may, from time to
time, recommend to the Board of Trustees such changes in the Comprehensive Plan
as may be deemed necessary by said Commission. Such changes shall become part
of the Comprehensive Plan after their approval and adoption by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees as amendments to this Chapter.
§ 8-2-4 CONFORMANCE WITH PLAN.
   No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land
within the corporate limits of the Village or in contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (1 1/2) miles from such limits and not included in any
municipality shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereon shown conforms with the requirements of the Comprehensive
Plan.
§ 8-2-5 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Community Development to enforce the
requirements of the Comprehensive Plan. The Director may call upon any other
departments or officials of the Village to furnish them with such information
or assistance as they may deem necessary for the observance or enforcement of
the Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the duty of such other departments or
officials to furnish such information or assistance whenever requested.
CHAPTER 3: BUILDING ACTIVITY CODE
Section
Article A. General Provisions
   
8-3A-1   Title
   
8-3A-2   Purpose
   
8-3A-3   Chapter as Remedial
   
8-3A-4   Applicability; Exemptions; More Restrictive Regulations
   
8-3A-5   Structures Existing on Date of Adoption of Chapter; Structures Moved
into Village
   
8-3A-6   Public Safety; Bonds
   
8-3A-7   Director of Community Development; Duties; Powers
   
8-3A-8   Building Permits
   
8-3A-9   Inspections
   
8-3A-10   Stop-Work Orders
   
8-3A-11   Certificates and Inspections
   
8-3A-12   Emergency Measures
   
8-3A-13   Off-Street Parking
   
8-3A-14   Numbering of Buildings
   
8-3A-15   Footings And Foundations
Article B. Adoption of Certain Codes
   
8-3B-1   International Residential Code Adopted
   
8-3B-2   International Building Code Adopted
Article C. Electrical Code
   
8-3C-1   Electrical Code Adopted
   
8-3C-2   Construction Regulations for Single- and Multi-Family R-1, R-2, R-3,
R-4, A-1, A-2 and A-3
   
8-3C-3   Construction Regulations for Commercial and Industrial I-1, I-2, B-1,
B-2, B-3, O-T and O-P
   
8-3C-4   All Installations or Alterations of Electrical Equipment Shall Be
Inspected Before Any of the Work is Concealed
   
8-3C-5   Licensed Electrician
Article D. Plumbing Code
   
8-3D-1   Plumbing Code Adopted
Article E. Mechanical Code
   
8-3E-1   Mechanical Code Adopted
Article F. Fuel Gas Code
   
8-3F-1   Fuel Gas Code Adopted
Article G. Energy Conservation Code
   
8-3G-1   Energy Conservation Code Adopted
Article H. Property Maintenance Code
   
8-3H-1   Property Maintenance Code Adopted
Article I. Illinois Accessibility Code
   
8-3I-1   Illinois Accessibility Code Adopted
Article J. Existing Building Code
   
8-3J-1   Existing Building Code Adopted
Article K. International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
8-3K-1   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code Adopted
Article L. Penalties
   
8-3L-1   Violations; Penalties
**** ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 8-3A-1 TITLE.
   This Chapter shall be known as the BUILDING ACTIVITY CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
ELK GROVE VILLAGE.
§ 8-3A-2 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to provide safety, health and public welfare
through structural strength and stability, means of egress, adequate light and
ventilation and protection to life and property from fire and hazards
incidental to the design, construction, alteration, repair, addition, removal
or demolition of buildings or structures.
§ 8-3A-3 CHAPTER AS REMEDIAL.
   This Chapter shall be construed to secure its expressed intent, which is to
ensure public safety, health and welfare insofar as they are affected by
building construction, through structural strength, adequate egress facilities,
sanitary equipment, light and ventilation and fire safety; and, in general, to
secure safety to life and property from all hazards incident to the design,
erection, construction, alteration, repair, addition, removal or demolition of
all buildings and structures.
§ 8-3A-4 APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS; MORE RESTRICTIVE REGULATIONS.
   A.   This Chapter shall control all matters concerning the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and
maintenance of all buildings and structures, and shall apply to existing or
proposed buildings and structures; except as such matters are otherwise
provided for in other ordinances or statutes, or in the rules and regulations
authorized for promulgation under the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   No building or structure shall be constructed, extended, repaired,
removed or altered in violation of these provisions, except for repairs as
defined in Subsection C of this Section.
   C.   Ordinary repairs to structures may be made without application or
notice to the Village, but such repairs shall not include the cutting away of
any wall, partition or portion thereof; the removal or cutting of any
structural beam or bearing support; or the removal or change of any required
means of egress, or rearrangement of parts of a structure affecting the exit
requirements; nor shall ordinary repairs include addition to, alteration of,
replacement or relocation of any standpipe, water supply, sewer, drainage,
drain leader, gas, soil, waste, vent or similar piping, electric wiring or
mechanical or other work affecting public health or general safety. Ordinary
repairs are further defined in Section
8-3A-8 of this Article.
   D.   When the provisions contained in this Chapter conflict with any other
provisions contained in this Code or in any State or Federal Statute, the most
restrictive or rigid provisions shall control.
§ 8-3A-5 STRUCTURES EXISTING ON DATE OF ADOPTION OF CHAPTER; STRUCTURES MOVED
INTO VILLAGE.
   A.   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any building or structure, or
part thereof, in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, except as
otherwise provided for in this Chapter.
   B.   The legal use and occupancy of any structure existing on the date of
adoption of this Chapter for which it has been heretofore approved, may be
continued without change, except as may be specifically covered in this
Chapter.
   C.   Alterations or repairs may be made to any structure without requiring
the existing structure to comply with all the requirements of this Chapter,
provided such work conforms to that required of a new structure. Alterations or
repairs shall not cause an existing structure to become unsafe or adversely
affect the performance of the building.
   D.   Alterations or repairs to an existing structure which are nonstructural
and do not adversely affect any structural member or any part of the structure
having a fire resistance rating may be made with the same materials of which
the structure is constructed.
   E.   In the event a building or structure is altered or repaired beyond the
twenty-five percent (25%) of its present physical value, the Village may
require that the entire building or portions thereof be brought into compliance
with all provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   If the structure is increased in floor area or number of stories, the
entire structure shall be made to conform with the requirements of this Chapter
in respect to means of egress, fire protection, fire suppression, light and
ventilation and life safety.
§ 8-3A-6 PUBLIC SAFETY; BONDS.
   A.   Occupation of Streets, Sidewalks and Parkways: Streets, parkways or
sidewalks shall not be occupied with building materials. No material shall be
so placed as to render inaccessible any fire hydrant, valve chamber, manhole or
catch basin, or obstruct the gutter or waterway of any street.
   B.   Bypass Walk: Before any sidewalk is obstructed or removed, a safe hard-
surfaced temporary bypass walk shall be constructed and maintained. Pedestrians
shall be protected from vehicular traffic by barricade or fence.
   C.   Barricades Required: The person or persons, firm or corporation using
public property for construction shall provide substantial and suitable
barricades and shall provide, place and maintain proper and sufficient warning
lights to guard and protect all traffic and passersby.
   D.   Damage to Barricading: It shall be unlawful to move, turn off,
extinguish, diminish or disturb any light or barricades required by Subsection
C of this Section.
   E.   Removal of Rubbish; Public Property: Rubbish or excavated material
which is deposited on the sidewalks or streets shall be removed from day to
day, as rapidly as produced. When materials or rubbish causing dust are
handled, they must be well wetted down.
   F.   Removal of Rubbish; Private Property: Rubbish or surplus materials
shall not be thrown, dropped or swept from any floor above the ground or from
any roof, but shall either be carried or lowered in such a manner as not to
cause dust.
   G.   Public Inconvenience: All building operations shall be conducted in a
manner that least inconveniences the public and abutting property owners.
   H.   Protection of Passersby: Where during construction an excavation or
other hazard exists five feet (5’) or less from a public walk, the contractor
shall provide and maintain a barricade or fence for the protection of
passersby.
   I.   Performance Bond: Prior to the issuance of a permit, which, in the
opinion of the Director of Community Development, may involve damage to public
property or the alteration of existing drainage patterns, a cash deposit in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each lot shall be deposited with
the Village to indemnify against damage to the streets, curbs, sidewalks,
trees, parkways and existing drainage patterns, and to ensure the proper
installation, repair and/or complete restoration of streets, curbs, sidewalks,
trees, parkways and existing drainage patterns in accordance with the
instructions of the Director of Community Development. It shall be the
responsibility of the general contractor to notify the Village of any public
property or drainage patterns which were damaged or altered prior to the start
of construction. The Director of Community Development may, when the work to be
performed under a permit is minor in nature or scope, authorize a cash deposit
of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) to fulfill the above requirements.
   J.   Bond Refund: Upon the final completion of all the work under the
permit, so much of such deposit as is necessary to reimburse the Village for
the repair and/or restoration of the damaged streets, curbs, sidewalks, trees,
parkways or drainage patterns, shall be retained by the Village and the
remainder shall be returned to the depositor; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall preclude the Village from maintaining any action against
the person or persons to recover from damage done to any public property or
drainage pattern.
   K.   Contractors; Existing Violations: The Village shall not be required to
issue a building permit to any contractor, contractor, tenant, lessee or
subcontractor responsible for existing Code violations until such work has been
corrected.
§ 8-3A-7 DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT; DUTIES; POWERS.
   A.   Director of Community Development: Whenever in this Chapter the term
“Director of Community Development” is used, it shall mean the employee
designated as such from time to time by the Village Manager, or their designee.
That Director is hereby authorized and it is their duty to administer and
enforce the provisions of the currently adopted Codes, as amended from time to
time, making such determinations, interpretations and orders as are necessary
therefor, and requiring such plats, plans and other descriptive material in
connection with applications for permits as are necessary for the Director of
Community Development to judge compliance with this Chapter.
   B.   General Duties: The Director of Community Development shall enforce all
the provisions of this Code and shall act on any questions relative to the mode
or manner of construction and the materials to be used in the erection,
addition to, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, installation of service
equipment and the location, use, occupancy and maintenance of all buildings and
structures.
   C.   Inspections: The Director of Community Development shall make all the
required inspections, or the Director of Community Development may accept
reports of inspections by approved agencies or individuals; and all reports of
such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible officer of
such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The Director of
Community Development may engage such expert opinion as may be deemed necessary
to report upon unusual technical issues that may arise subject to the approval
of the appointing authority.
   D.   Credentials: The Director of Community Development and authorized
representatives shall carry proper credentials for their respective offices for
the purposes of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the
performance of duties under this Code.
   E.   Rule Making Authority: The Director of Community Development shall have
power as may be necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general
welfare to adopt and promulgate rules and regulations, to interpret and
implement the provisions of this Code, to secure the intent thereof and to
designate requirements applicable because of local climatic or other
conditions; but such rules shall not have the effect of violating accepted
building, engineering and construction practices involving public safety.
   F.   Records: The Director of Community Development shall keep official
records of applications received, permits and certificates issued, fees
collected, reports of inspections and notices and orders issue. Such records
shall be retained in the official records so long as the building or structure
to which they relate remains in existence unless otherwise provided by other
regulations.
§ 8-3A-8 BUILDING PERMITS.
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall begin the erection, construction,
alteration or repair, demolition or movement of any building or structure in
the Village or begin the clearing or excavating of the site of any proposed
building or structure, or construct or maintain any driveway in or across any
public walk, parkway or curb, without first having applied for and obtained a
permit in writing to do so from the Village.
   Ordinary repairs to a building may be made without an application for a
building permit or notice to the Village that the work will take place.
   The following items are hereby defined as ordinary repairs by the Village.
These items shall not be considered as an all inclusive listing of ordinary
repairs.
      1.   Ordinary building repairs include:
         a.   Exterior and interior painting;
         b.   Installation, repair or replacement of any interior finish in a
one- or two-family dwelling, such as vinyl wall covering, plastering or drywall
on an existing wall;
         c.   Wallpapering at any location;
         d.   The replacement of glazing material in any window or door.
However, the replacement material shall be of the type and quality so as to
comply with minimum requirements of this Code;
         e.   The installation and replacement of any window or door, including
garage doors, in the same opening without altering the dimensions or framing of
the original opening. This shall include storm windows and storm doors. Any new
door or window shall be of the same type and operation as the existing and
shall not reduce the minimum requirements of this Code for means of egress,
emergency escape, glazing or energy efficiency;
         f.   The repair of any nonstructural member such as a railing;
         g.   The repair or replacement of any interior or exterior trim,
decoration or moldings;
         h.   The replacement or installation of any flooring material except
carpeting, with new material. However, installation of carpeting in one- and
two-family dwellings will be permitted under ordinary repairs;
         i.   The repair of existing roofing material with like material not
requiring the replacement of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
sheathing;
         j.   The replacement or installation of siding material;
         k.   The repair of any part of a porch or stoop which does not
structurally support a roof above;
         l.   The replacement or installation of screens in existing openings;
         m.   The installation of any roll or batt insulation;
         n.   The replacement or installation of exterior rain gutters and
leaders;
         o.   The replacement or installation of fascia and/or soffit;
         p.   The tuckpointing of existing masonry or the replacement of
existing brickwork;
         q.   The sealcoating of existing asphalt surfaces without striping;
         r.   The repair or replacement of existing concrete flatwork shall be
limited to thirty (30) square feet.
      2.   Ordinary plumbing repairs include:
         a.   Repairs involving only working parts of a faucet, valve or
plumbing fixture;
         b.   The clearance of stoppages or the repair of leaks provided such
repairs do not require any change in the piping arrangement or an excavation on
the exterior of the structure;
         c.   Replacement of any faucet or valve provided no rearrangement of
the connecting piping system is required.
      3.   Ordinary electrical repairs shall include:
         a.   The replacement of any receptacle, switch or lighting fixture
rated at twenty (20) amps or less and operating at less than one hundred and
fifty (150) volts to ground with a like or similar item;
         b.   Repairs to any installed electrically operated equipment such as
doorbells, communication systems and any motor operated device.
      4.   Ordinary fire protection repairs shall include:
         a.   The replacement of any sprinkler or smoke detector or heat
detector head with a like device;
         b.   The repair or replacement of any component of a fire alarm or
smoke and heat detection equipment.
      5.   Ordinary heating, ventilation and air conditioning repairs shall
include:
         a.   Replacement of motors, pumps and fans of the same capacity;
         b.   Repair and replacement of heating supply and return piping and
radiation elements in hot water heating systems, which does not require
rearrangement of the piping system;
         c.   Repair and replacement of duct work;
         d.   Repairs or replacement of control devices for heating and air
conditioning equipment.
   No inspections of ordinary repairs are required by this Code.
   B.   Application Form: An application for a permit shall be submitted in
such form as the Director of Community Development may prescribe. Such
application shall contain the full names and addresses of the applicant and of
the owner, and if the owner is a corporate body, of its responsible officer.
The application shall also describe briefly the proposed work and shall give
such additional information as may be required by the Director of Community
Development for an intelligent understanding of the work proposed.
   C.   Plot Plan Required: At the time of applying for a permit, the applicant
shall submit to the Director of Community Development one (1) copy of a current
plat of survey of the lot by an Illinois registered land surveyor, showing the
dimensions of the same and the position to be occupied by the proposed
building, or by the building to be altered or added to, or by the building to
be moved thereon, and the position of any other building or buildings that may
be on the lot, including swimming pools, decks, patios, sheds, etc., and
landscaping required by the Zoning Ordinance. Topographical data shall be
included showing existing contours at vertical intervals of not less than two
feet (2') and proposed changes in contours and showing elevation of proposed
foundation to USGS elevation datum.
   D.   Plans Required: Plans, drawings, specifications and calculations
meeting the architectural, mechanical, structural, plumbing, life safety and
electrical requirements of the Codes currently adopted by the Village shall be
presented to the Director of Community Development for their approval before
permit will be granted. Plans shall specifically show design live loads and
occupant capacities for all spaces and floors.
   The application for the permit shall be accompanied by specifications and
plans having the seal and signature of a registered architect, structural or
professional engineer pursuant to the statutes of the State of Illinois. The
plans shall be drawn to scale, with sufficient clarity and detail dimensions to
show the nature and character of the work to be performed. When quality of
materials is essential for conformity to this Code, specific information shall
be given to establish such quality; and this Code shall not be cited, or the
term “legal” or its equivalent be used, as a substitute for specific
information.
   Exception: Working drawings in sufficient detail to describe the character
of the work proposed are required for single-family residential buildings or
their additions or accessory structures.
   Additionally, the Director of Community Development is permitted to waive
the requirement for filing plans when the work involved is of a minor nature.
   E.   Proof of Compliance: A building permit shall not be issued until
satisfactory proof has been submitted that adequate and approved water supply
and sewage facilities are available; that surface and roof drainage will not
damage adjoining properties; that, to maintain the public safety because of
activity on and to the property, public pedestrian walks and curbs are provided
and that where, in the opinion of the Director of Community Development an
operational plan is necessary, such plan has been submitted to and approved by
the Village.
   The operational plan shall consist of a drawing identifying: emergency fire
apparatus vehicle access; truck runways and material delivery area; employee
and patron parking areas; and material storage areas approved by the Village
Fire Marshal or their designee.
   F.   Preliminary Plan Review: Preliminary plan review services may be
performed by the Director of Community Development upon receipt of sufficient
information or partially completed plans. Said service shall be performed for a
fee equal to one-half (1/2) of the fee normally charged for full and final plan
review. Any fees paid for said preliminary plan review shall not be credited
toward the cost for final plan review work.
   G.   Construction Plans: In all construction work for which a permit is
required, the approval and stamped drawings and plans shall be kept on file at
the construction site while the work is in progress. The permit shall be posted
on the site.
   H.   Alteration of Plans: It shall be unlawful to erase, alter or modify any
lines, figures or coloring contained upon drawings or plans bearing the
approval stamp of the Director of Community Development, or filed with them for
reference. If during the progress of the execution of such work, it is desired
to deviate in any manner affecting the construction or other essentials of the
building from the terms of the application or drawing, notice of such intention
to alter or deviate shall be given to the Director of Community Development and
an amended plan showing such alteration or deviation shall be obtained before
such alteration shall be made.
   I.   Demolition of Buildings or Structures:
      1.   Before a building or structure may be demolished, the owner or agent
shall notify all utilities having service connections within the structure,
such as water, electric, gas, sewer and other connections. A permit to demolish
a building or structure shall not be issued until a release is obtained from
the utilities, stating that their respective service connections and
appurtenant equipment, such as meters and regulators, have been removed or
sealed and plugged in a safe manner.
      2.   The plot plan shall show the buildings or structures to be
demolished and the buildings or structures on the same lot that are to remain.
After the demolition, the premises will be placed in a satisfactory condition,
free from all unsafe or hazardous conditions.
   J.   Action on Application: The Director of Community Development shall
examine application for permits, within a reasonable time after filing. In
addition, the Director of Community Development shall contact the Director of
Finance in order to determine whether the applicant requesting the permit has
any outstanding financial obligations to the Village. If any unpaid financial
obligations exist, that amount, plus any interest or applicable penalties which
may have accrued thereon, shall be added to the building permit fee herein
imposed. Should the building permit applicant dispute the existence of all or
any part of the outstanding financial obligation and provide evidence with
respect thereto to the Director of Finance or his/her designated agent, then
and in such case, the Director of Finance, with approval by the Village
Manager, is authorized to settle and compromise the amount due, in whole or in
part. The decision of the Director of Finance and the Village Manager shall be
deemed final.
   If, after examination, including financial obligation, the Director of
Community Development finds no objections to the application for the permit and
it appears that the proposed work will be in compliance with the laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, and the proposed construction or work will be
safe, they shall approve such application and issue a permit for the proposed
work as soon as practicable. If their examination reveals otherwise, they shall
reject such application and notify the applicant.
   K.   Revocation of Permit: The Director of Community Development may revoke
a permit issued in case there has been any false statement or misrepresentation
as to a material fact in the application or plans on which the permit or
approval was based.
   L.   Approval of Permit in Part: Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed
to prevent the Director of Community Development from issuing a permit for the
construction of part of a building or structure before the entire plans and
detailed statements of said building or structure have been submitted or
approved, provided adequate information and detailed statements have been
submitted for the same and have been found to comply with this Chapter.
   M.   Permit for Moving Building or Structure: Before a building or structure
may be moved, the owner or agent shall notify all utilities having service
connections within the building or structure such as water, electric, gas,
sewer and any other connections. A permit for moving a building or structure
shall not be issued until a release is obtained from the utilities concerned
stating that their respective connections and appurtenant equipment, such as
meters and regulators, have been removed or sealed and plugged in a safe
manner.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move any building on, through or over
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the Village without having
obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made in
writing and shall state thereon the proposed route and number of days it is
intended that the building shall occupy any portion of any public street.
   No permit shall be issued to move a building to a location within the
Village to a location when the use of said building at said location would
cause a violation of applicable regulations.
   N.   Commencement Notice to Be Given: The Director of Community Development
shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours’ notice of the starting of work
under a permit.
   O.   Permit Fees: Permit fees shall be such fees as established from time to
time by resolution of the Village Board. A permit shall not be issued until all
required fees have been paid. A penalty fee in the amount of two (2) times the
regularly established permit fee plus ten percent (10%) of the value of the
construction project for which the permit is being applied shall be assessed in
all cases where construction has commenced prior to the issuance of a building
permit, provided, however, that the minimum penalty fee shall be not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00). The determination by the Director of Community
Development as to whether the construction has commenced prior to the issuance
of the permit and the value of the construction involved shall be deemed final.
   P.   Compliance with Chapter: The permit shall be a license to proceed with
the work and shall not be construed as authority to violate any of the
provisions of this Chapter, except as specifically stipulated by modification
or variation.
   Q.   Compliance with Permit: All work shall conform to the approved
application and plans for which the permit has been issued and any approved
amendments thereto.
   R.   Compliance with Plot Plan: All new work shall be located strictly in
accordance with the approved plot plan. One copy of platted survey, prepared by
a registered land surveyor of the State of Illinois, will be required within
fourteen (14) days after foundation is placed on the lot as well as the true
USGS elevation of top of foundation wall and existing grade of curb, sidewalk
or existing grade of street or roadway. No construction will be permitted past
the decking over the foundation except for water, sewage and related items
unless such platted survey has been filed and approved by the Director of
Community Development.
   S.   Extension and Expiration of Building Permit: If, after a building
permit required by this Chapter shall have been granted, the operation called
for by such permit shall not have been started within three (3) months after
the date thereof, such permit shall be void and no operation thereunder shall
be begun. Where, under authority of a permit, work has begun and has not been
prosecuted for a continuous or cumulative period of one month, all rights under
such permit shall thereupon terminate and work can be continued only after
application for and issuance of a new permit. Where, under authority of a
permit, work has not been completed within one year after the issuance of such
permit, all rights under such permit shall thereupon terminate and work can be
continued only after application for and issuance of a new permit.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, all exterior construction
work associated with a building permit shall be completed within six (6) months
after the issuance of the permit or all rights under such permit shall
terminate and work can be continued only after application and issuance of a
new permit.
   The Director of Community Development may extend the expiration date of a
building permit subject to the submission of a satisfactory schedule for the
completion of all required work.
   T.   Compliance with All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
§ 8-3A-9 INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Preliminary Inspection: Before issuing a permit, the Director of
Community Development may examine or cause to be examined all buildings,
structures and sites for which an application has been filed for a permit to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove or demolish.
   B.   Required Inspections:
      1.   Inspections required under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
made by the Director of Community Development or their duly appointed
employees. If an inspection has been scheduled and, in the opinion of the
Village inspector, after arrival on the inspection site, the job is not ready
or has not progressed to a point where an inspection can be made properly or
access is not possible to perform the inspection, a fifty dollar ($50.00)
reinspection fee may be charged. No further inspections shall be made until
such time as the reinspection fee has been paid.
      2.   The owner or contractor is required to call the Department of
Community Development at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance, for the
following inspections:
         a.   Footing: Before concrete is poured and after footing excavation
has been completed;
         b.   Foundation: Before concrete is poured and after the installation
of any required reinforcement;
         c.   Drain Tile: Before backfilling and after footing, drain tile and
gravel have been placed and walls have been dampproofed or waterproofed;
         d.   Under Slab: Before any concrete floor slabs are poured and after
insulation and vapor barriers are installed;
         e.   Underslab Plumbing, Electrical and Mechanical: After underslab
plumbing, electrical and mechanical are installed and before concrete floor
slabs are poured;
         f.   Sheathing and Weather Resistant Barrier Paper: Before any
insulation, siding or brick veneer is applied and after the framing is
completed;
         g.   Rough Framing: Before any insulation, vapor barrier or wall
finish is applied and after the framing is completed;
         h.   Rough Plumbing: Before any insulation, vapor barriers or wall
finish is applied and after the rough plumbing is completed;
         i.   Rough Electrical: Before any insulation, vapor barriers or wall
finish is applied and after the rough electric is completed;
         j.   Rough Mechanical: Before any insulation, vapor barriers or wall
finish is applied and after rough mechanical is completed;
         k.   Electrical Service: At the time the electrical service is to be
energized or re-energized;
         l.   Insulation: Before any interior wall finish is applied and after
vapor barriers and exterior wall finishes are completed;
         m.   Above Ceiling: Prior to enclosing the ceiling areas;
         n.   Sewer Connection: Before any backfill and after house sewer has
been tapped into sanitary sewer;
         o.   Water Connection: Before backfill and after installation of
service pipe on the house side of the curb stop;
         p.   Driveway Inspection: A proof-roll inspection of the driveway base
prior to the installation of Portland cement or asphalt pavement;
         q.   Final Inspection: After all work is completed and building is to
be approved for issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Obstruction of Inspection: No work shall be done which will cover,
or obstruct from view, construction work requiring an inspection which is not
yet approved by the Director of Community Development.
      4.   Approval: As each stage or item of construction is approved, the
approval shall be recorded by the Director of Community Development thereby
authorizing the continuation of the work.
   C.   Approved Inspection Agencies: The Director of Community Development may
accept reports of approved inspection agencies.
   D.   Plant Inspection: When required by the provisions of this Chapter or by
the approved rules, materials or assemblies shall be inspected at the point of
manufacture or fabrication in accordance with Subsection E of this Section.
   E.   Inspection Reports: All inspection reports shall be in writing and
shall be certified by the licensed authority, or responsible officer of the
agency or the individual when expert inspection services are accepted. An
identifying label or stamp permanently affixed to the product indicating that
factory inspection has been made shall be accepted in lieu of the aforesaid
inspection report in writing if the intent or meaning of such identifying label
or stamp is properly substantiated.
   F.   Final Inspection: Upon completion of the building or structure, and
before issuance of the certificate of use and occupancy, a final inspection
shall be made. All violations of the approved plans and permit shall be noted
and the holder of the permit shall be notified of the discrepancies.
   G.   Right of Entry: In the discharge of duties, the Director of Community
Development or authorized representative shall have the authority to enter at
any reasonable hour any building, structure or premises in the jurisdiction to
enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
§ 8-3A-10 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   A.   Notice to Owner: Upon notice from the Director of Community Development
that work on any building or structure is being prosecuted contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter, or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, such work
shall be immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in verbal or written
form and shall be given to the owner of the property involved, or to the
owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work and shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed.
   B.   Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work in or
about the structure after having been served with a stop-work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00).
§ 8-3A-11 CERTIFICATES AND INSPECTIONS.
   A.   Occupancy Certificates: No structures or additions thereto constructed,
moved, remodeled or reconstructed shall be occupied and used for any purpose,
and no land vacant shall be used for any other use, unless an occupancy
certificate shall first have been obtained from the Village certifying that the
proposed use or occupancy complies with all provisions of this Chapter.
      1.   Application for an Occupancy Certificate: Every application for a
building permit shall be deemed an application for an occupancy certificate.
The application for an occupancy certificate for a new or changed use of land
or structures where no building permit is required shall be filed with the
Director of Community Development and be in such form and contain such
information as the Director of Community Development shall provide by general
rule.
      2.   Application for Occupancy Certificate for Commercial, Office
Transitional, Innovation and Technology and Industrial Uses: Prior to the
issuance of an occupancy certificate for any use to be located in a Commercial,
Office Transitional, Innovation and Technology or Industrial District, the
owner, occupant or user shall submit and receive approval of the Zoning and
Occupancy Application and Performance Standards Review Certification form.
      3.   Issuance of Occupancy Certificate: No occupancy certificate for a
structure or addition thereto constructed, moved, remodeled or reconstructed
shall be issued until such work has been completed, including off-street
parking and loading spaces, and the premises has been inspected by the Director
of Community Development and determined to be in full and complete compliance
with the plans and specifications upon which the issuance of the building
permit was based. No occupancy certificate for a new use of any structure or
land shall be issued until the premises has been inspected by the Director of
Community Development and determined to be in full and complete compliance with
all of the applicable regulations for the zoning district in which it is
located.
      Pending the issuance of a permanent occupancy certificate, a temporary
certificate may be issued to be valid for a period of not to exceed six (6)
months from its date pending the completion of any construction or during
partial occupancy of the premises.
      A temporary occupancy certificate shall contain such conditions and
requirements as the Village
deems appropriate and shall be issued subject to the posting of a refundable
cash bond whose value shall equal one hundred ten percent (110%) of the value
of all work remaining to be completed as identified under the authority of the
building permit. The fee for a temporary occupancy certificate shall be as
adopted from time to time by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      In the event that any construction or building for which a temporary
occupancy certificate has been issued has not been fully completed so as to
comply with all applicable Village ordinances at the end of the specified
expiration period, the Director of Community Development may cause said
premises to be vacated and to remain vacated until full compliance with all
applicable ordinances of the Village has been obtained. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this Section, the Director of Community Development may extend
the expiration date of a temporary occupancy certificate subject to proof that
the work remaining to be completed is progressing at an acceptable pace, and
further subject to the submission of a satisfactory schedule for the completion
of all remaining work.
   An occupancy certificate shall be issued or written notice shall be given to
the applicant stating the reasons why a certificate cannot be issued within
twenty-one (21) days after the Director of Community Development is notified in
writing that the structure or premises is ready for occupancy.
   B.   Yielding of Occupancy by Applicant: The permit applicant shall not
yield occupancy until a temporary or final occupancy certificate has been
obtained.
   C.   Reinspection: If a building or any part thereof fails approval in its
final inspection, the violations of this Chapter or other ordinances shall be
corrected by the contractor and notice given to the Village that the building
is ready for reinspection.
   D.   Supplemental Requirements: Notwithstanding any provision within this
Code to the contrary, the following improvements and supplemental documentation
shall be required prior to the issuance of a final occupancy certificate.
      1.   All fees and charges due and payable to the Village shall be
remitted.
      2.   The water meter and raceway (conduit) for the remote water meter
reader shall be installed and in service.
      3.   The buffalo box (water shutoff) shall be adjusted to grade,
accessible and operable.
      4.   All public and private sidewalks on and adjacent to the lot shall be
completed.
      5.   Driveway and approach paving shall be completed.
      6.   Any replacement or repair to damaged curbs and gutters, streets,
sidewalk, driveway or street lighting shall be completed.
      7.   All final grading within the lot and parkway areas shall be
completed and a final topographic survey shall be submitted indicating that all
grading does not deviate by more than two inches (2") plus or minus the
approved subdivision grading plan and that all overland storm water flow
conforms with said grading plan.
      8.   An established, homogeneous grass surface shall be provided in all
front yards, and exterior side yards. Parkways shall be sodded. If a seeded
surface is provided in front and side yards and has not been established
satisfactorily at the time of final inspection, a cash bond will be required in
the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Village’s estimate of the
cost of providing a sodded surface. The cash bond will be returned when the
Director of Community Development has determined that a homogeneous grass
surface has been established. The bond will be forfeited if such a surface has
not been achieved six (6) months after the date of issuance of the temporary
certificate of occupancy.
      9.   All rear yards and interior side yards shall be sodded or seeded.
      10.   Trees of an approved species shall be planted in the parkway areas.
One tree shall be required for each fifty (50) lineal feet of street frontage.
      11.   All other required landscaping shall be installed.
      12.   Address numbers shall be affixed to the building.
      13.   A final plot plan shall be submitted showing all final as-built
dimensions.
   The aforementioned is not an all-inclusive list of requirements.
§ 8-3A-12 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   A.   Vacating Structures: When, in the opinion of the Director of Community
Development, there is actual and immediate danger of failure or collapse of a
building or structure or any part thereof which would endanger life, or when
any structure or part of a structure has fallen and life is endangered by the
occupancy of the building or structure, the Director of Community Development
is hereby authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate
the same forthwith. The Director of Community Development shall cause to be
posted at each entrance to such building a notice reading as follows:
Not Approved For Occupancy
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such building or structure
except for the purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing the same.
   B.   Temporary Safeguards: When, in the opinion of the Director of Community
Development, there is actual and immediate danger of collapse or failure of a
building or structure or any part thereof which would endanger life, the
Director of Community Development shall cause the necessary work to be done to
render such building or structure or part thereof temporarily safe, whether or
not the legal procedure herein described has been instituted.
   C.   Closing Streets: When necessary for the public safety, the Director of
Community Development may temporarily close sidewalks, streets, buildings and
structures, and places adjacent to such unsafe structures and prohibit the same
from being used.
§ 8-3A-13 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   All off-street parking and loading facilities, including driveways and
pavement, shall be constructed in accordance with all provisions contained in
this Code and such provisions are hereby incorporated into the adopted codes of
Elk Grove Village by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see Chapter 7 of this Title
§ 8-3A-14 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   A.   Required: All houses, buildings and structures within the Village shall
be numbered in accordance with the regulations set forth by the Department of
Community Development.
   B.   Duty to Affix; Visibility: It shall be the duty of the owner or
occupant of every house, building or structure in the Village to have placed
thereon, so as to be clearly visible from the street, figures showing the
number of the house, building or structure. The minimum height of letters and
numbers shall be six inches (6") set on a contrasting background.
   C.   Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision
of this Section.
   D.   Payment of Fine: Any person charged with a violation of any provision
of this Section may, in lieu of prosecution for a violation thereof, make
payment in accordance with the provisions of the violation notice.
§ 8-3A-15 FOOTINGS AND FOUNDATIONS.
   Poured in place concrete footings and/or foundations shall be provided for
all habitable buildings and structures which require the construction of
footings and/or foundations. Trench foundations shall be poured monolithically
from subgrade to top of foundation. Capping of a trench footing shall not be
permitted. All foundation walls shall extend a minimum of six inches (6") above
finished grade for all construction, except precast concrete walls which sit
directly upon a footing. Precast concrete, mortar blocks and similar segregated
materials shall not be permitted for foundation wall construction. Precast
concrete wall panels shall be permitted to extend below grade only when
installed directly upon a footing and only when used for the construction of a
continuous precast exterior wall extending from footing to roof.
**** ARTICLE B. ADOPTION OF CERTAIN CODES ****
§ 8-3B-1 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the International Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings, 2024 edition, prepared and published by the
International Code Council, together with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes hereinafter set forth, which is available for viewing in the
Department of Community Development. This code shall govern the construction of
detached one- and two-family dwelling units, their appurtenances and their
accessory structures except that the provisions of the International Building
Code, 2024 edition, as amended, shall apply to items not specifically covered
by the International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, 2024
edition.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings, 2024 edition:
      1.   Section R101.1. Under “Name of Jurisdiction” insert “Village of Elk
Grove Village”.
      2.   Add Section R105.1.1 Kitchen and Bathroom Remodel Permits. Where
work taking place within the structure meets the definition of a kitchen,
bathroom or half bathroom remodel, a permit is required and all work shall
comply with currently adopted codes as they relate to new installations.
         Definitions: Kitchen Remodel - A kitchen remodel includes, but is not
limited to, the removal and replacement of cabinets.
         Bathroom Remodel - A bathroom remodel includes, but is not limited to,
the removal and replacement of a water closet, lavatory and bathtub/bathtub
enclosure/shower or shower enclosure.
         Half Bathroom Remodel - A remodel including the removal and
replacement of the water closet and lavatory.
      3.   Section R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Delete items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
9 and 10 under the “building” section.
      4.   Section R107 Temporary Structures and Uses.
         Amend section R107.1 General to read as follows:
         R107.1 General. Temporary structures and uses are permitted during and
for construction purposes only.
         Delete Sections R107.2 Conformance; R107.3 Temporary Power; and R107.4
Termination of Approval.
      5.   Section R112 – Means of Appeals is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         R112.1. General. Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in
Title 8-3B-2B-4 of this Code.
         Delete Section R112.2, 112.3 & R112.4
      6.   Section R113.4 Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         R113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repairs a building or structure is in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided for by Title 8, Chapter 3,
Article L of the Municipal Code.
      7.   Section R202 Definitions. The definition of Structure is hereby
amended to read as follows:
         Structure. Any construction, or any production or piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner; or, any combination of materials to form a construction for occupancy,
use or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of a
parcel of land.
      8.   Section R202 Definitions. Add new definition of Temporary Structure
as follows:
         Temporary Structure. All Membrane-Covered structures (as defined in
Section 202 of the International Building Code); or any structure originally
designed for mobile or transportation purposes (i.e., truck trailers, shipping
or freight containers, etc.); or any structure without a permanent foundation
(excepting there from residential storage sheds not exceeding one-hundred fifty
(150) square feet in floor area).
      9.   Section R301.1.4 Intermodal shipping containers is deleted in its
entirety.
      10.   The following information shall be utilized to complete Table
R301.2 (Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria) of the 2024 IRC:
         TABLE R301.2 - CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA.
         Ground Snow Load: 25 pounds per square foot
         Wind Design:
         (1)   Wind speed 115 mph; 3 second gusts
         (2)   Topographic Effects: No
         (3)   Special Wind Region: No
         (4)   Wind-Borne Debris Zone: No
         Seismic Design Category: B
         Subject to Damage From:
         (1)   Weathering: Severe
         (2)   Frost Line Depth: 42 inches
         (3)   Termite: Slight to Moderate
         Ice Barrier Underlayment Required? Yes
         Flood Hazards: (See current FIRM maps)
         Air Freezing Index: 2000
         Manual J Design Criteria: As referenced in current ACCA Manual J
      11.   Section R306 Flood-Resistant Construction is deleted in its
entirety.
      12.   Section 308.1. is hereby amended to read as follows:
         308.1. Premises identification as specified in 8-3A-14 of this Code.
      13.   Amend section R310.6 exception 2 to read as follows:
         Smoke alarms installed in accordance with section R310.2.2 shall be
permitted to be battery powered however; one (1) smoke alarm within the general
vicinity of the construction must be hardwired.
      14.   Section R311 Carbon Monoxide Alarms is amended as follows:
         Delete the first sentence in section R311.3 Location and amend to read
as follows:
         Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved
carbon monoxide alarm in an operating condition within fifteen feet (15') of
every room used for sleeping purposes. The carbon monoxide alarm may be
combined with smoke detecting devices provided that the combined unit complies
with the respective provisions of the administrative code, reference standards,
and departmental rules relating to both smoke detecting devices and carbon
monoxide alarms and provided that the combined unit emits an alarm in a manner
that clearly differentiates the hazard.
         Amend section R311.6 exception 2 to read as follows:
         Carbon monoxide alarm installed in accordance with Section R311.2.2
shall be permitted to be battery operated however, if construction associated
with the permit is taking place at a level where rooms used for sleeping
purposes exist than one (1) carbon monoxide detector must be hardwired.
         Add section R311.8 General.
         i.   Every structure that contains more than one dwelling unit shall
contain at least one approved carbon monoxide alarm in operating condition
within fifteen feet (15') of every room used for sleeping purposes.
         ii.   It is the responsibility of the owner of a structure to supply
and install all required alarms. It is the responsibility of a tenant to test
and to provide general maintenance for the alarms within the tenant’s dwelling
unit or rooming unit, and to notify the owner or the authorized agent of the
owner in writing of any deficiencies that the tenant cannot correct. The owner
is responsible for providing one tenant per dwelling unit with written
information regarding alarm testing and maintenance.
         The tenant is responsible for replacement of any required batteries in
the carbon monoxide alarms in the tenant’s dwelling unit, except that the owner
shall ensure that the batteries are in operating condition at the time the
tenant takes possession of the dwelling unit. The tenant shall provide the
owner or the authorized agent of the owner with access to the dwelling unit to
correct any deficiencies in the carbon monoxide alarm that have been reported
in writing to the owner or the authorized agent of the owner.
      15.   Section R317 Garages and Carports is amended as follows:
         Section R317.5 Fire sprinklers is amended by adding “When required by
section R309.2 of this code” to the beginning of the first sentence.
         Add Section R317.8 General. Off-street parking spaces required by the
Zoning Ordinance shall be provided in a completely enclosed building for the
following construction:
         i.   All new single-family dwellings.
         ii.   All reconstructed single-family dwellings where over fifty
percent (50%) of the structure above the foundation is razed.
      16.   Add Section R328.2 Drainage Systems as follows:
         Drainage Systems: Water discharged from swimming pools, spas, or hot
tubs shall be directed to the public street through the use of a discharge hose
unless such discharge can occur directly into a storm sewer structure located
in rear yards by the use of a continuous discharge hose from the swimming pool,
spa, or hot tub to the storm sewer structure. Any encroachment of adjacent
property by the discharge hose must first have the approval of the appropriate
homeowner(s).
         At no time, shall water discharged from a swimming pool, spa, or hot
tub be permitted to encroach upon any adjacent property and in no case shall
the overland discharge of swimming pool, spa, or hot tub water be permitted
unless such overland flow can be confined to the property upon which the
swimming pool, spa, or hot tub is located.
         Water discharged from swimming pools, spas, or hot tubs shall not
create hazards to either pedestrians using the public sidewalk or vehicles
using the public street. Water shall not be discharged during periods of rain
or storms and at no time shall the discharge rate exceed a flow of 200 gallons
per minute.
      17.   Section R329.6.2 Setback at ridge is amended to read as follows:
         For photovoltaic arrays occupying thirty-three (33) percent or less of
the plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than twenty-four (24)
inches wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge. For photovoltaic
arrays occupying more than thirty-three (33) percent of the plan view total
roof area, a setback of not less than forty-eight (48) inches wide is required
on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
         Section R329.6.2.1 Alternative setback at ridge is amended to read as
follows:
         Where an automatic sprinkler system is installed within the dwelling
or townhouse in accordance with NFPA 13D or Section P2904, setbacks at the
ridge shall conform to one of the following:
         1.   For photovoltaic arrays occupying sixty-six (66) percent or less
of the plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than twenty-four (24)
inches wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
         2.   For photovoltaic arrays occupying more than sixty-six (66)
percent of the plan view total roof area, a setback of not less than forty-
eight (48) inches wide is required on both sides of a horizontal ridge.
         Add Section R329.6.5 Roof Pathway access labeled on the ground to read
as follows:
         Roof pathway access shall be labeled on the ground and shall be
visible at night (reflective) where the roof access is greater than ten (10')
feet.
         Add Section R329.6.6 Roof Pathway access to read as follows:
         Any roof pathway access shall not be above windows or doors.
      18.   Section R402.1 Wood Foundations is deleted in its entirety.
         Section R405.1 Concrete or Masonry Foundations is amended to read as
follows:
         Drains shall be provided around all concrete or masonry foundations
enclosing habitable or usable spaces located below grade. Drainage tiles,
gravel or crushed stone drains, perforated pipe or other approved systems or
materials shall be installed at or below the area to be protected and shall
discharge by gravity or mechanical means into an approved drainage system.
            Foundation drainage shall be directed out of the side or rear of
the foundation wall and directed to the rear of the property. Foundation
drainage shall not discharge in such a manner so as to create a nuisance on
adjacent properties. When, in the opinion of the Director of Community
Development the discharge of foundation drainage is creating a nuisance on
adjacent properties, the Director shall require the discharge pipe to be
relocated so that it terminates no closer than ten feet (10') from any
adjoining property line.
            Gravel or crushed stone drains shall extend at least one foot (1')
beyond the outside edge of the footing and six inches (6") above the top of the
footing and be covered with an approved filter membrane material. The top of
open joints of drain tiles shall be protected with strips of building paper,
perforated drains and the drainage tiles or perforated pipe shall be placed on
a minimum of two inches (2") of washed gravel or crushed rock at least one
sieve size larger than the joint opening or perforation and covered with not
less than six inches (6") of the same material.
         Delete the Exception in Section R405.1.
      19.   Delete Section R504 Pressure Preservative-Treated Wood Floors (On-
Ground).
      20.   Section M1411.10 Condensate Pumps is amended as follows:
         Condensate pumps are only permitted where gravity drainage is not
feasible due to the sanitary sewer elevation.
      21.   Plumbing. Amend Chapters 25 through 33 to read as follows:
         The plumbing requirements shall conform to the provisions of the most
current edition of the Illinois State Plumbing Code, Illinois Administrative
Code 77, Code 890 and Title 8, Chapter 3, Article D of the Elk Grove Village
Municipal Code.
      22.   Electrical. Amend Chapter 34 General Requirements to read as
follows:
The electrical requirements shall conform to the provisions of the most current
edition of NFPA 70, National Electrical Code and Title 8, Chapter 3, Article C
of the Elk Grove Village Municipal Code.
§ 8-3B-2 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, governing the construction of all other structures (exclusive of one-
and two-family dwelling units) within the Village, that certain code known as
the International Building Code, 2024 edition, prepared and published by the
International Code Council, together with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes hereafter set forth, which is available for viewing in the
Department of Community Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Building Code, 2024 edition:
      1.   Section 101.1: Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 101.4 is hereby amended to read as follows:
         101.4 Referenced codes.
         The other codes specified in Sections 101.4.1 through 101.4.8 and
referenced elsewhere in this code shall be considered to be part of the
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
         Section 101.4.8 is added to read as follows:
         Electrical. The provisions of the most current edition of NFPA 70:
National Electrical Code and Title 8, Chapter 3, Article C of the Elk Grove
Village Municipal Code shall apply to the installation of electrical systems,
including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures,
fittings and appurtenances thereto.
      3.   Section 103.1: Insert “Community Development Department”.
      4.   Section 113.1 General is hereby amended to read as follows:
         APPEAL PROCESS.
         a.   In the event a building permit is denied and or there is a
request for variation relative to the application, interpretation, order,
determination or decision of the Director of Community Development regarding
the Village’s adopted codes, or a waiver or modification to the building
regulations herein, the applicant shall have the right to appeal.
         b.   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or other regulations legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed, or that an appellant
can demonstrate a practical difficulty or particular hardship in attaining
compliance.
         c.   The appeal process would begin with a written appeal detailing
the basis of the appeal. It shall be filed with the Director of Community
Development, who will set it for a preliminary hearing with the Director of
Community Development and the applicant. If requested by the Director of
Community Development, the Village Attorney, or their designee, may be present
as well.
         d.   In the event the applicant is not satisfied with the preliminary
meeting, the applicant may further appeal to the Mayor and Board of Trustees by
way of its Judicial, Planning, and Zoning committee (the “Committee”). Once a
second written appeal is made, a meeting shall be set within a reasonable
period of time.
         e.   At the meeting prescribed in item d of this section, evidence
shall be received from the applicant, Village staff and any other interested
party. The applicant shall provide evidence which demonstrates that the true
intent of this code or other regulations legally adopted thereunder has been
incorrectly interpreted, and/or the practical difficulty or particular hardship
of attaining compliance.
         f.   The Committee shall recommend granting or denying the appeal to
the Mayor and Board of Trustees however, the granting of the appeal will not
endanger the public health, safety and welfare and will result in a standard of
construction which is reasonable, practical and comparable to that required by
the existing codes. No appeal may be granted without final action by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees.
      5.   Delete Section 113.2 Limitations on authority.
      6.   Delete Section 113.3 Qualifications.
      7.   Section 114.4: is hereby amended to read as follows:
         114.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repairs a building or structure is in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided for by Title 8, Chapter 3,
Article L of the Elk Grove Village Municipal Code.
      8.   Section 202 Definitions. The definition of Structure is hereby
amended to read as follows:
         Structure. Any construction, or any production or piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner; or, any combination of materials to form a construction for occupancy,
use or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of a
parcel of land.
         Section 202 Definitions. Add new definition of Temporary Structure as
follows:
         Temporary Structure. All membrane structures (as defined in Section
3102.1 of this Code); or any structure originally designed for mobile or
transportation purposes (i.e. truck trailers, shipping or freight containers,
etc.); or any structure without a permanent foundation.
      9.   Add new Sections 403.3.5 and 403.3.6 as follows:
         403.3.5 Shut-off Valves and Waterflow Devices. Shut-off valves and a
waterflow device shall be provided for each floor.
         403.3.6 Valve Supervision. Valves shall be supervised by a
continuously manned control station or central station.
      10.   Section 415.1 General is hereby amended to read as follows:
         The provisions of Sections 415.1 through 415.11 shall apply to the
storage and use of hazardous materials in excess of the maximum allowable
quantities per control area listed in Section 307.1. ALL BUILDING AND
STRUCTURES WITH AN OCCUPANCY IN USE GROUP H SHALL BE LOCATED IN A SEPARATE
FREE-STANDING BUILDING AND NOT IN A MULTI-TENANT BUILDING.
      11.   Section 502.1. is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Premises identification as specified in 8-3A-14 of this Code.
      12.   Table 504.4 Allowable Number of Stories Above Grade Plane is hereby
amended as follows:
         The height limitations for F-2 and S-2 shall be the same as F-1 and S-
1.
         Lines R-1 and R-2 under columns 3B, 5A and 5B shall be eliminated. 3B,
5A and 5B construction shall not be permitted for R-1 and R-2 use groups.
      13.   Table 506.2 Allowable Area Factor is hereby amended as follows:
         The area limitations for F-2 and S-2 shall be the same as F-1 and S-1.
         Lines R-1 and R-2 under columns 3B, 5A and 5B shall be eliminated. 3B,
5A and 5B construction shall not be permitted for R-1 and R-2 use groups.
      14.   Section 705.4 Materials is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Section 705.4 Materials. In the ITC, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts,
exterior walls of all principal and accessory structures shall consist of
brick, masonry, stone, split face block, precast or cast in place concrete or
other equivalent non-combustible rigid construction. Metal clad buildings or
parts thereof and membrane structures shall not be permitted. In all other
districts, exterior walls shall be of materials permitted by the building type
of construction.
      15.   Section 706.5 Horizontal Continuity is hereby amended by deleting
Exceptions 1 and 2.
      16.   Section 706.6 Vertical Continuity is hereby amended by deleting
Exceptions 2, 3 and 4.
      17.   Add new Section 706.8.1 Hold-Open Devices as follows:
         Hold-Open Devices: heat-actuated hold-open devices shall be installed
on both sides of the wall, and shall be interconnected so that the operation of
any single device will permit the door to close. Heat detectors of fusible
links shall be installed at the door opening and at the ceiling in compliance
with NFPA 80 when required by Elk Grove Fire Department Inspectional Services.
      18.   Section 901.1 is hereby amended by adding hereto the following:
         Reference Chapter 9 amendments of the International Fire Code in Title
5-3-2 of the Elk Grove Village Municipal Code titled Fire Protection and
Prevention Code. Most restrictive interpretations of the currently adopted
codes take precedence.
      19.   Add new Section 913.1.1 Fire Pump Access as follows:
         Fire pump room access shall be located on the main level of exit
discharge. Access to the fire pump shall be from both the exterior and interior
of the building
      20.   Section 913.2.1 is hereby amended as follows:
         Where provided, rooms containing fire pumps shall be separated from
the remainder of the building by a minimum of two (2) hour construction.
         The exceptions are deleted.
      21.   Section 1003.1 is hereby amended by adding the following sentence:
         The provisions of the 2024 International Existing Building Code shall
not be used to eliminate the installation requirements for exit signs and means
of egress illumination systems.
      22.   Section 1008.2 Illumination required is hereby amended by deleting
Exceptions 1, 2 and 3.
      23.   Section 1008.3 is hereby amended by adding hereto the following:
         3.6 Conference rooms, training rooms, break rooms or lunchrooms, and
restrooms that accommodate more than one occupant.
      24.   Section 1010.1.1 Size of Doors is hereby amended by deleting the
exceptions.
      25.   Section 1010.2.4 Locks and latches is hereby amended by deleting
item 3.
      26.   Section 1013.1 Exit Signs Where required is hereby amended by
deleting Exception 2.
      27. Section 1013.2. is hereby amended as follows:
         Low-level exit signs
         The installation of low-level exit signs to supplement regular exit
signs shall be placed in all new occupancies to include places of assembly,
hotels, department stores, or other buildings subject to transient occupancy
and semi-permanent occupancy such as an apartment house, and as deemed
necessary by the Fire Code Official. Such exit signs may be approved
luminescent, photo luminescent, self-luminous, or self-illuminated types. They
are not intended to replace standard exit signs but are designed as a
supplementary aid for a building occupant seeking egress in smoke-filled
environment at a location that is the last to become obscured. Existing
facilities shall be required to have this signage within two (2) years. Such
signs shall be located near the floor level in addition to those signs required
for doors or corridors. The bottom of the sign shall be not less than ten (10)
inches, but not more that eighteen (18) inches above the floor. For exit doors,
the sign shall be mounted on or adjacent to the door with the nearest edge of
the sign within four (4) inches of the door frame. Photo luminescent signs may
be used in place of externally illuminated signs.
         Delete the exception.
      28.   Section 1023.9.2 Floor landing and stairwell signs is added to read
as follows:
         Floor landing and stairwell signs shall be required in all enclosed
stairwells on every floor per use groups specified in Section 1025.1 and all
existing hotels, apartments, and nursing homes. Signs shall also be mounted on
the wall adjacent to the door at not less than five (5) feet above the finished
floor indicating floor level and stairwell designation.
      29.   Section 1028.5 Access to a public way is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         1028.5 Access to a public way. From each grade floor exit from a
building there shall be provided a hard surface area, a minimum of forty-eight
inches (48") in width centered on that door, extending from the door to a
property line adjoining a public street.
      30.   Delete Section 1809.5 Frost Protection.
      31.   Section 3001.2.1 Elevator Phone is added to read as follows:
         All required emergency elevator phones shall directly dial the Village
of Elk Grove Village’s Communications Center through the phone number
designated by the Fire Code Official.
      32.   Section 3001.3 Referenced standards is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         3001.3 Referenced standards. Referenced Standards to be as stringent
and comply with current Illinois Elevator Safety Act (225 ILCS 312) and its
Rules. For private residential conveyance application, the Act does not apply;
however, the IBC code shall apply for new installation, permits, final
acceptance. For applications not covered by the Illinois Elevator Safety Act,
those conveyance applications shall be covered under the IBC code by the AHJ
for new installation, permits, final acceptance, periodic inspections and
testing, unsafe conditions, power to seal equipment, put conveyance out of
service, and certificate compliance as well as owner/agent responsibility for
contractor, maintenance, accident/injury responsibility.
         Referenced Standard from IBC 2024: Safety Code for Elevators and
Escalators (ASME A17.1), Performance Based Safety Code for Elevators and
Escalators (A17.7), Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts
(ASME A18.1), Safety Standard for Belt Manlifts (A90.1), Safety Standard for
Conveyors and Related Equipment (B20.1).
         Referenced Standards from (225 ILCS 312): Safety Code for Elevators
and Escalators (ASME A17.1), the Standard for the Qualification of Elevator
Inspectors (ASME QEI-1), the Automated People Mover Standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI
21), and the Safety Standard for Platform Lifts and Stairway Chairlifts (ASME
A18.1).
      33.   Section 3001.4 Accessibility is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Passenger elevators required to be accessible or to serve as part of
an accessible means of egress shall comply with Section 1009 and 1110.10 of the
2024 IBC along with requirements set forth in the most recently adopted
Illinois Accessibility Code.
      34.   Section 3002.4 Elevator car to accommodate ambulance stretcher is
hereby amended to read as follows:
         Elevator car to accommodate ambulance stretcher. Where elevators are
provided in buildings, no less than one elevator shall be provided for fire
department emergency access to all floors regardless of rise.
         Such elevator car shall be of such size and arrangement to accommodate
a minimum 24-inch by 84-inch ambulance stretcher in the horizontal open
position and shall be identified by the International Symbol for emergency
medical services (Star of Life).
         The symbol shall not be less than 3 x 3 inches high and wide (76 mm x
76 mm) and shall be placed inside on both sides of the main lobby hoist way
doorframe.
         Additional Automatic elevator requirements applicable as referenced in
Title 5-4-3 Section 604 amendments as required by the Fire Code Official.
      35.   Section 3003.3 Standardized fire service elevator keys is hereby
amended to add the following to the end of the sentence:
         for new and modernized (existing) elevators only.
      36.   Section 3004.4 Personnel and material hoists is hereby amended to
modify the last sentence and add an additional sentence to read as follows:
         Field tests shall be conducted upon the completion of an installation
or following a major alteration jump of a personnel hoist. All miscellaneous
hoisting and elevating equipment shall be subjected to tests and inspections as
required by the AHJ to ensure safe operation.
      37.   Section 3005.1 Access is hereby amended to read as follows:
         An approved means of access shall be provided to elevator machine
rooms and overhead machinery equipment spaces. This means is not to be used as
a passageway through the machine room to other areas of the building or roof.
      38.   Section 3005.4 is hereby amended by deleting exception 2.
      39.   Section 3009.1 is hereby amended by adding the following to the end
of the sentence: “of the current state adopted elevator code edition.”
      40.   Section 3009.3 is hereby amended by adding the following to the end
of the sentence: “for new or altered elevators.”
      41.   Add new Section 3010 entitled Certificate of Compliance.
         Add Section 3010.1 General to read as follows:
         The operation of all equipment governed by the provisions of this
chapter and hereafter installed, relocated or altered shall be unlawful by
persons other than the licensed installer until such equipment has been
inspected and tested as herein required and a final certificate of compliance
has been issued by the AHJ.
         Add Section 3010.2 Posting Certificate of Compliance to read as
follows:
         The owner or lessee shall post the current-issued certificate of
compliance in a conspicuous place inside the conveyance. A copy of the current
issued certificate is acceptable. Please refer to Illinois Elevator Safety Act.
      42.   Section 3103 Temporary Structures.
         Section 3103.1 General is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Temporary structures and uses are permitted during and for
construction purposes only.
         Delete Sections 3103.1.2 Conformance; 3103.1.3 Permit Required; 3103.2
Construction Documents; 3103.3 Location; and 3103.4 Means of egress.
      43.   Add new Section 3309.1.1 Fire Extinguishers for roofing operations
to read as follows:
         Fire extinguishers shall be installed in accordance with Section
906.There shall be not less than one multi-purpose portable fire extinguisher
with a minimum 4A60BC on the roof being covered or repaired.
      44.   Section 3111.3 Photovoltaic solar energy systems.
         Section 3111.3 Photovoltaic solar energy systems is hereby amended to
read as follows:
         Photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be designed and installed in
accordance with this section, the International Fire Code as amended by the
Village of Elk Grove Village, NFPA 70 and the manufacturer’s installation
instructions.
**** ARTICLE C. ELECTRICAL CODE ****
§ 8-3C-1 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted. There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, the most current published edition of that certain code known as NFPA
70, the National Electrical Code as sponsored and published by the National
Fire Protection Association, together with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes hereinafter set forth, which is available for viewing in the
Department of Community Development.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Article and the
provisions of the most current published edition of NFPA 70, the National
Electrical Code, the provisions contained in this Article shall prevail and the
conflicting provisions contained in NFPA 70, the National Electrical Code,
shall be of no force and effect.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to NFPA 70, the National Electrical Code:
      1.   Section 210.8(F) GFCI Protection for Outdoor Outlets shall be
amended by deleting Exception No. 2.
      2.   Section 230.70(A)(1) Readily Accessible Location shall be amended as
follows:
         230.70(A)(1) Readily Accessible Location. Add the following text to
the end of the sentence: “and within five feet (5') of the point of entrance of
the service conductors.”
      3.   Section 310.3(B) Conductor material shall be amended to read as
follows:
         310.3(B) Conductor Material. Conductors in this Article shall be of
copper material only. No other type of material may be used for conductors.
      4.   Section 320.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 320.10 Uses Permitted. Type AC cable shall only be permitted
when used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not
exceeding six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed
spaces.
      5.   Section 330.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 330.10 Uses Permitted. Type MC cable shall only be permitted
when used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not
exceeding six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed
spaces.
      6.   Section 334.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         334.10 Uses Permitted. Type NM and Type NMC cables are not permitted
to be used within the Village.
      7.   Section 348.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 348.10 Uses Permitted. Type FMC shall only be permitted when
used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not exceeding
six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed spaces.
      8.   Section 350.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 350.10 Uses Permitted. Type LFMC shall only be permitted when
used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not exceeding
six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed spaces.
      9.   Section 352.10 Uses Permitted for PVC conduit is hereby amended by
deleting paragraph (G) Exposed.
      10.   Section 356.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 356.10 Uses Permitted. Type LFNC shall only be permitted when
used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not exceeding
six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed spaces.
      11.   Section 360.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 360.10 Uses Permitted. Type FMT shall only be permitted when
used to supply light fixtures or electrical equipment in lengths not exceeding
six feet (6') in accessible spaces or twelve feet (12') in concealed spaces.
      12.   Section 362.10 Uses Permitted shall be amended to read as follows:
         Section 362.10 Type ENT Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing is not permitted
to be used within the Village.
      13.   Section 400.10 Uses Permitted, paragraph (A) Uses, subparagraph (1)
Pendants is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Pendants. Pendant hung flexible cable and cord is prohibited.
         Exception: Pendant hung flexible cable may be permitted only with the
written permission of the Director of Community Development and only under
circumstances where the use of flexible cord as a wiring method is necessary to
the method of operation due to the frequent alteration, change or relocation of
electrical equipment. Such permission shall be granted only upon evaluation of
written documentation submitted to the Director of Community Development that
clearly demonstrates exceptional practical hardship as distinguished from a
mere inconvenience to the owner or tenant. All pendant hung flexible cable
approved under this section shall contain a ground conductor and shall be
terminated in approved fittings.
§ 8-3C-2 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS FOR SINGLE- AND MULTI-FAMILY R-1, R-2, R-3,
R-4, A-1, A-2 AND A-3.
   A.   All detached structures requiring electrical service shall be served
underground in an approved manner, and shall be suitably protected against
physical damage.
   B.   All applications for permits to install or alter electrical wiring
systems other than minor alteration or process wiring shall include plans
indicating the following information:
      Outlets to same circuit, number of outlets on each circuit, number of
outlets proposed, number and size of wire to be drawn in conduit and complete
service and all feeder riser diagrams and grounding methods and material to be
used.
   C.   All installations or alterations of electrical equipment shall be
inspected before any of the work is concealed. Any person, firm, company or
corporation shall notify the Village giving twenty-four (24) hours’ notice
before the required electrical inspection.
      1.   The Director of Community Development is hereby empowered to remove
or cause to be removed from said building any material which might interfere
with a thorough inspection. Said removal shall be at owner’s expense.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use or turn on power into, or induce any
electrical current to flow through any wire or equipment hereafter installed
until approved by the Director of Community Development. Commonwealth Edison
Company shall not be permitted to install a service meter unless approved by
the Director of Community Development.
      3.   The foregoing does not restrict the issuance of the temporary
approval by the Director of Community Development for the use of electricity
for construction purposes.
§ 8-3C-3 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL I-1, I-2, B-1,
B-2, B-3, O-T AND O-P.
   A.   Definition: Commercial and industrial building shall by definition
include all buildings or structures in the above districts.
   B.   Underground Service: All detached structures requiring electrical
services in other than I-1 and I-2 Industrial Districts shall be served
underground in an approved manner, and shall be suitably protected against
physical damage.
   C.   Provisions for Commercial and Industrial Wiring:
      1.   Service equipment may have multiple disconnects, but shall be in one
common enclosure.
      2.   Drawings shall be submitted for approval before any custom building
electrical equipment rated one thousand (1,000) amperes or larger is installed
for use in service or distribution wiring system.
      3.   The switchboard manufacturer who builds or assembles the service
equipment shall submit detailed drawings of their proposal, including the
current interrupting capacity of all over current devices, to the utility
company who will approve copies of the drawings and forward them to Elk Grove
Village, who in turn will, upon approval, attach the Village approval stamp and
return one copy to the submitter bearing the approval stamp of both the Village
and the utility and any changes, corrections, additions or deletions necessary
for approval.
      4.   Pendant hung flexible cable and cord will be permitted with the
written approval of the Director of Community Development only under
circumstances where the use of flexible cord as a wiring method is necessary to
the method of operation due to the frequent alterations and changes of the
electrical equipment. All such cables shall contain a ground conductor and
shall be terminated in approved fittings.
§ 8-3C-4 ALL INSTALLATIONS OR ALTERATIONS OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT SHALL BE
INSPECTED BEFORE ANY OF THE WORK IS CONCEALED.
   Any person, firm, company or corporation shall notify the Village giving
twenty-four (24) hours’ notice before the required electrical inspection.
   A.   The Director of Community Development is therein empowered to remove or
cause to be removed from said building any material which might interfere with
a thorough inspection. Said removal shall be at owner’s expense.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to use or turn on power into, or induce any
electrical current to flow through any wires or equipment hereafter installed
until approved by the Director of Community Development. Commonwealth Edison
Company shall not be permitted to install a service meter unless approved by
the Director of Community Development.
   C.   The foregoing does not restrict the issuance of a temporary approval by
the Director of Community Development for the use of electricity for
construction purposes.
§ 8-3C-5 LICENSED ELECTRICIAN.
   Permits for electrical work shall only be issued to persons who have
obtained and hold a valid license or certificate of registration as an
electrician or electrical contractor in the State of Illinois. Current licenses
and certificates issued by political subdivisions of the State of Illinois will
be acceptable proof of qualification to obtain electrical permits.
**** ARTICLE D. PLUMBING CODE ****
§ 8-3D-1 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Codes Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set
out herein, those certain codes known as the International Plumbing Code, 2024
edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council and the most
recently published edition of the State of Illinois Plumbing Code, prepared and
published by the Illinois Department of Public Health, together with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth, which is
available viewing in the Department of Community Development.
   B.   International Plumbing Code Amendments: The following additions,
insertions, deletions and changes are hereby made to the International Plumbing
Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1: Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1: Insert “Community Development Department”.
      3.   Section 112. Means of Appeals is hereby deleted in its entirety.
      4.   Section 113.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
         113.1 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-
2B-4 of this Code.
      5.   Section 114.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         114.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair plumbing work in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the code official or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code shall be subject
to the penalties as provided for by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L of the
Municipal Code.
      6.   Section 305.4.1 Sewer Depth is hereby deleted in its entirety.
      7.   Table 605.3: Water Service Pipe is hereby amended to permit only the
following pipe materials for water service pipe:
         i.   Copper or Copper Alloy Tubing Type K - ASTM B 75; ASTM B 88; ASTM
B 251; ASTM B 447.
         ii.   Ductile Iron Water Pipe - AWWA C151/A 21.51; AWWA C115/A 21.15.
      8.   Table 605.4 Water Distribution Pipe is hereby amended to permit only
the following materials for water distribution pipe:
         i.   Copper or Copper Alloy Pipe (Types K or L only) - ASTM B 42; ASTM
B 302.
         ii.   Copper or Copper Alloy Tubing (Types K or L only) - ASTM B 75;
ASTM B 88; ASTM B 251; ASTM B 447.
         iii.   Galvanized Steel Pipe - ASTM A 53.
      9.   Section 605.6 Flexible Water Connectors shall be amended by adding
thereto the following final sentence:
         Flexible water connectors shall not be permitted for the installation
of water heaters.
   C.   State Plumbing Code Amendments: The following additions, insertions,
deletions and changes are hereby made to the most recently published edition of
the State of Illinois Plumbing Code.
      1.   Add new Section 890.1220 a) 11) as follows:
         890.1220 a) 11) Water Heater Connection. Flexible water connectors
shall not be permitted for the installation of water heaters.
      2.   Section 890. Appendix A, Table A. Approved Materials for Water
Service Pipe is hereby amended to permit only the following pipe materials for
water service pipe:
         i.   Cast iron (Ductile Iron) - ASTM A 377-1984.
         ii.   Copper/Copper Alloy Tubing Type K - ASTM B 88-1988.
      3.   Section 890. Appendix A, Table A. Approved Materials for Water
Distribution Pipe is hereby amended to permit only the following pipe materials
for water distribution pipe:
         i.   Copper/Copper Alloy Pipe (Types K or L only) - ASTM B 42-1988:
ASTM B 302-1988.
         ii.   Copper/Copper Alloy Tubing (Types K or L only) - ASTM B 88-1988.
         iii.   Galvanized Steel Pipe - ASTM A 53-1988; ASTM A 120-1984.
      4.   Pursuant to 17 Illinois Administrative Code 3730.307(c)(4) and
subject to the Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill. adm. code 890) and the lawn
irrigation contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. adm.
code 892), all new plumbing fixtures and irrigation controllers installed shall
bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S. environmental protection
agency WaterSense program), when such labeled fixtures are available.
**** ARTICLE E. MECHANICAL CODE ****
§ 8-3E-1 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set
forth herein, that certain code known as the International Mechanical Code,
2024 edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, which is available for viewing in the Department of Community
Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Mechanical Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1: Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1: Insert “Community Development Department”.
      3.   Section 112 is hereby deleted in its entirety.
      4.   Section 113.1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
         113.1 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-
2B-4 of this Code.
      5.   Section 114.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         114.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair work covered by this code in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L
of the Municipal Code.
      6.   Section 307.3 Condensate Pumps is amended to read as follows:
         Condensate pumps are only permitted where gravity drainage is not
feasible due to the sanitary sewer elevation.
      7.   Section 502.14.1 Garage Exhaust System is added to read as follows:
         In garage settings where a carbon monoxide detection device(s) control
the activation of an exhaust system this system must shut down upon the
activation of the fire detection and/or suppression systems. A manual override
control shall be installed under direction of the Fire Code Official.
      8.   Section 606.4.1 Supervision is amended as read as follows:
         Duct smoke detectors shall be connected to the building’s fire alarm
control panel when a fire alarm system is provided. Activation of a duct smoke
detector shall initiate a visible and audible fire signal and shut down the
individual units. Duct smoke detectors shall not be used as a substitute for
required open area detection. Duct smoke detectors shall be required in all air
handling units 2000 CFM or greater. All test switches shall be labeled and
installed in a proximate area near the Fire Alarm panel or as determined by the
Fire Code Official. All duct detectors should be labeled in correlation with
the HVAC units and clearly marked on the inside ceiling, visible from the
floor. All rooftop units will be visibly marked.
         The exceptions are deleted.
      9.   Section 1101.10 Use of Water for Comfort Air Conditioning be added
as follows:
         1101.10 Use of Water for Comfort Air Conditioning. In all apparatus or
equipment installed for the purpose of changing the dry bulb temperature or
humidity content of the air, whether used in conjunction with summer comfort
air conditioning or other refrigeration, the following regulations shall apply:
         1.   The use of water is prohibited when used directly from the water
system as a cooling medium in air washers or any type of equipment whereby the
air to be conditioned comes into direct contact with sprays or wet surfaces, or
where the water is used as the direct or indirect cooling system medium in
coils.
         2.   The use of water is permitted in all compressor type
refrigeration units having standard rated capacities of one and one-half (11/2)
tons or less.
         3.   All compressor type refrigeration units having standard rated
capacities of over one and one half (11/2) tons shall be equipped with
evaporate coolers and condensers, water cooling towers, spray ponds, and or
other water cooling equipment so that all water from the water system is used
for make-up purposes only.
         NOTE: In paragraphs 2 and 3 above the capacities shall be established
in accordance with conditions given in standard ASRE Testing and Rating Codes.
         4.   If other than compressor types of refrigeration units are used,
the consumption of water from the water system shall be limited in amount to
not more per ton of refrigeration produced than would be used by a compressor
type refrigeration unit as described under paragraph 3 above when such type is
operating under normal conditions.
**** ARTICLE F. FUEL GAS CODE ****
§ 8-3F-1 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set
forth herein, that certain code known as the International Fuel Gas Code, 2024
edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council, together
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set forth,
which is available viewing in the Department of Community Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Fuel Gas Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1: Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1: Insert “Community Development Department”
      3.   Section 112 is hereby deleted in its entirety and amended to read as
follows:
         112.1 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-
2B-4 of this Code.
      4.   Section 113.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair work covered by this code in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L
of the Municipal Code.
         Section 403.4.5 is hereby deleted in its entirety. Corrugated
stainless steel tubing is not permitted to be used within the Village.
**** ARTICLE G. ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ****
§ 8-3G-1 ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the most recently published edition of the
State of Illinois Energy Code, prepared and published by the Illinois Capitol
Development Board, together with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes hereinafter set forth, one copy which is available for viewing at the
Department of Community Development.
**** ARTICLE H. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ****
§ 8-3H-1 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Codes Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set
out herein, that certain code known as the International Property Maintenance
Code, 2024 edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, which is available for viewing at the Department of Community
Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1: Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1: Insert “Community Development Department”.
      3.   Section 106 is hereby deleted in its entirety and amended to read as
follows:
         106.1 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-
2B-4 of this Code.
      4.   Section 107.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         107.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair work covered by this code in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L
of the Municipal Code.
      5.   Section 302.4: Insert “as specified in Title 4-5-2 of the Municipal
Code”.
      6.   Section 304.3. is hereby amended to read as follows:
         304.3. Premises identification as specified in 8-3A-14 of this Code.
      7.   Section 304.14: Insert “April 1” and “December 1”.
      8.   Add new Section 304.20 to read as follows:
         Section 304.20 Residential Exterior Storage. No exterior storage of
items is permitted.
      9.   Section 602.3: Insert “October 1” and “May 15”.
      10.   Section 602.4: Insert “October 1” and “May 15”.
      11.   Amend Section 702.2 to read as follows:
         702.2 Aisles: Arrangements of chairs or tables and chairs shall
provide for ready access by aisle access ways and aisles to each egress door.
The minimum clear width of each aisle in occupancies of Use Groups A, E, and I-
2 shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of the most recent
edition of the Building Code adopted by the Village of Elk Grove Village. In
all other occupancies, aisles shall have a minimum required clear width of 44
inches where serving an occupant load greater than 50, and 36 inches where
serving an occupant load of 50 or less. The clear width of aisles shall not be
obstructed by chairs, tables or other objects.
      12.   Add Section 702.5 as follows:
         702.5 Exit Signs: All means of egress shall be indicated with approved
“Exit” signs where required by the most recent edition of the Building Code
adopted by the Village of Elk Grove Village. All “Exit” signs shall be
maintained visible and all illuminated “Exit” signs shall be illuminated at all
times that the building is occupied.
      13.   Add Section 702.6 as follows:
         702.6 Dead-end Travel Distance: All corridors that serve more than one
exit shall provide direct connection to such exits. The length of a dead-end
corridor shall not exceed 35 feet where the building is not equipped throughout
with an automatic sprinkler system. The dead-end travel distance limitation
shall be increased to 70 feet where the building is equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system.
      14.   Section 704.7 Single and Multiple Station Smoke Alarms is hereby
amended by adding thereto the following final sentence:
         Anyone tampering or interfering with the effectiveness of a smoke
alarm shall be in violation of this Code.
      15.   Add Section 704.8 as follows:
         704.8 Fire Extinguishers: All portable fire extinguishers shall be
visible, provided with ready access thereto, and maintained in an efficient and
safe operating condition. Extinguishers shall be of an approved type.
      16.   Add Section 704.9 as follows:
         704.9 Manual Fire Alarm Boxes: All manual fire alarm boxes shall be
operational and unobstructed.
      17.   Add Section 704.10 as follows:
         704.10 Smoke and Heat Detectors: All smoke and heat detectors shall be
operational and free from any obstructions that prevent proper operation,
including smoke entry.
**** ARTICLE I. ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE ****
§ 8-3I-1 ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the most current edition of the Illinois
Accessibility Code, prepared and published by the Illinois Capitol Development
Board, together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes
hereinafter set forth, which is available for viewing in the Department of
Community Development.
**** ARTICLE J. EXISTING BUILDING CODE ****
§ 8-3J-1 EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the International Existing Building Code,
2024 edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, which is available for viewing in the Department of Community
Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Existing Building Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1:Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1: Insert “ Community Development Department”.
      3.   Section 105.2 Work exempt from permit.
         Delete items 1 and 6 under the “building” section.
      4.   Section 112 is hereby amended to read as follows:
         112 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-2B-
4 of this Code.
      5.   Section 113.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair work covered by this code in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L
of the Municipal Code.
      6.   Add Section 302.6 Automatic Sprinkler Systems in Existing Buildings
or Structures.
         Additions or alterations to any building or structure shall comply
with the requirements of the code for new construction except for the
installation of approved automatic sprinkler systems. Approved automatic
sprinkler systems shall be installed in accordance with Section 903.2 of the
2024 International Building Code as amended in Title 8, Chapter 3, Article B of
the Municipal Code. Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing
building or structure that will cause the existing building or structure to be
in violation of any other provisions of this Code. An existing building plus
additions shall comply with the height and area provisions of Chapter 5.
Portions of the structure not altered and not affected by the alteration are
not required to comply with the code requirements for a new structure except as
required for the installation of approved automatic sprinkler systems in
accordance with Section 903.2 of the 2024 International Building Code as
amended in Title 8, Chapter 3, Article B of the Municipal Code.
**** ARTICLE K. INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ****
§ 8-3K-1 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED.
   A.   Code Adopted: There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out
herein, that certain code known as the International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code, 2024 edition, prepared and published by the International Code Council,
together with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes hereinafter set
forth, which is available for viewing in the Department of Community
Development.
   B.   Amendments: The following additions, insertions, deletions and changes
are hereby made to the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2024 edition.
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert “Village of Elk Grove Village”.
      2.   Section 103.1. Insert “Community Development Department”.
      3.   Section 112 is hereby amended to read as follows:
         112 Board of Appeals – Board of Appeals as specified in Title 8-3B-2B-
4 of this Code.
      4.   Section 113.4: Violation Penalties is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         113.4. Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, install, alter or repair work covered by this code in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the code
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provision of this code
shall be subject to the penalties as provided by Title 8, Chapter 3, Article L
of the Municipal Code.
**** ARTICLE L. PENALTIES ****
§ 8-3L-1 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day, commencing from date of official
notification, during or on which a violation or failure to comply occurs or
continues.
   In addition, the Village shall have the right to seek injunctive relief from
the Circuit Court of Cook or DuPage County, including the Third Municipal
District thereof to abate or enjoin any violation of this chapter when the
continuation thereof would cause a serious injury to the public health, safety
and welfare.
CHAPTER 4: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
8-4-1   Purpose
   
8-4-2   General Provisions
   
8-4-3   Sign Permits
   
8-4-4   Sign Measurement Standards
   
8-4-5   Permanent Signs Requiring Permit
   
8-4-6   Signs Not Requiring Permit
   
8-4-7   Sign Related Definitions
§ 8-4-1 PURPOSE.
   This Chapter defines regulations providing for design, construction, use,
display, maintenance, alteration, location and removal of signs that preserve
the right of free speech and expression, and also:
   A.   Promote the health, safety and general welfare of the Village from
signs that are unsafe, or interfere with drivers, bicyclists or pedestrians;
   B.   Enhance the appearance and economic vitality of the Village by avoiding
sign clutter that can compromise the character, quality and viability of the
community;
   C.   Are compatible with surroundings and not a nuisance to occupants of
nearby property due to brightness, reflectivity, bulk, height or other possible
impacts;
   D.   Assist in wayfinding; and
   E.   Are aesthetically pleasing, of appropriate scale, integrated with the
built environment, and in keeping with the Elk Grove Village Comprehensive Plan
and other relevant statements of Village policy.
§ 8-4-2 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A.   Code Applicability: All sign elements shall meet the construction
standards of this Chapter and requirements of Title 8, Chapter 3: Building
Activity Code of the Village Code.
   B.   Relationship to Other Regulations: Where any provision of this Chapter
covers the same subject matter as other regulations, the more restrictive
regulation shall apply.
   C.   Permitted Locations: All signs shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Public Property: Signs may only be placed on public property by a
government agency or as authorized by this Chapter. Any sign placed on public
property including, without limitation, utility poles, streetlights, fire
hydrants, street signs and traffic control signals, parkways, street rights-of-
way or sidewalks without authorization may be removed without notice.
      2.   Private Property: Signs may only be placed on private property with
prior consent of the property owner and, if applicable, pursuant to an approved
permit issued by the Director of Community Development or their designee.
   D.   Maintenance, Inspection and Removal:
      1.   Maintenance: The routine maintenance or changing parts of a sign is
permissible without permit, provided that such change does not alter the
surface area, height or make the sign non-conforming.
      2.   All signs, support structures and required landscaped areas
immediately adjacent to a sign shall be maintained in a manner that is
consistent with the approved plans, is safe and secure and not a danger or
nuisance to the public.
      3.   Dangerous Signs: If any sign is found to be unsafe or unsecured, or
has been constructed or erected in violation of the provisions of this Chapter,
the Director of Community Development or their designee shall give written
notice to the permittee or property owner that said sign is in violation. If
the permittee or property owner fails to bring the sign into compliance with
this Chapter and follow related directions by the Director of Community
Development or their designee within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice,
such sign may be removed by the Village at the expense of the permittee or
property owner.
      4.   The Director of Community Development or their designated Village
staff member may cause any sign improperly placed on public property, or which
is an endangerment to persons or property, to be removed immediately and
without notice.
      5.   Abandoned Signs: Any sign that has been abandoned, in that the
business conducted, product sold or service rendered on site is no longer in
operation, shall be removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial
use of the building, structure or lot upon which such sign is located within
thirty (30) calendar days of abandonment. If such sign is not removed, the
Director of Community Development or their designee may issue a notice of
noncompliance specifying a date upon which the sign shall be removed. If the
owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building or lot has not
removed the sign by the cure date, the Village is authorized to remove the
sign. Any expense incidental thereto shall be paid by the owner of the
building, structure or lot upon which such sign is located.
      6.   Paint and Finishes: Paint and other sign finishes shall be
maintained in good condition.
      7.   Identification Required on Signs: Every sign requiring a permit
shall be plainly marked with the name of the person or company erecting and
maintaining said sign.
      8.   The permittee and/or the owner of the premises on which a sign is
located shall be the responsible party for the purpose of receiving notice
under this Chapter.
   E.   Illumination of Signs:
      1.   Illuminated signs located on a lot adjacent to or across the street
from a R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, A-1, A-2 or A-3 Zoning District shall be turned off
and not operated between the hours of eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M. unless the premises on which the sign is specifically
operating is engaged in the operation of the business; in which event, the sign
shall not be operated past the hour of one o’clock (1:00) A.M.
      2.   All illuminated signs shall be in accordance with regulations as
prescribed by Title 8, Chapter 3: Building Activity Code of the Village Code.
      3.   Gooseneck reflectors and lights shall be permitted on Monument Signs
and Wall Signs.
[IMAGE]
      4.   All external lighting of signs shall be directed only at the sign
face and shall be shielded so that the light source is not visible from the
property line or directly cast light or glare on any right-of-way or adjacent
property.
      5.   No illuminated sign shall be placed within one hundred feet (100')
of an illuminated traffic signal if, in the opinion of the Director of
Community Development, said sign will interfere with, confuse or distract
driver compliance with said illuminated traffic signal. Appeals from such
rulings may be made to the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      6.   Exposed neon tubing is prohibited on all signs. Neon tubing may be
used only for the interior illumination of signage and shall be covered with
permanent protective materials which prevent the neon tubing from being visible
from the exterior of the sign upon its illumination.
      7.   No reflective material may be included in a sign so as to reflect
light directly upon an adjacent right-of-way or property.
      8.   In no case shall the lighting intensity of any sign exceed the limit
of one (1) foot candle at a B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, ITC or OT Zoning District
property line and one-half foot (1/2) candle at a R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, A- 1, A-
2 or A-3 Zoning District property line.
      9.   In no event shall the illumination of any sign, resulting from any
internal or external light source, exceed fifty (50) foot-candles, when
measured with a standard light meter held perpendicular to the sign face at a
distance of four feet (4') from the sign.
      10.   Signs that are illuminated shall be in good working order. Signs
with partially working lights shall not be illuminated until repaired.
      11.   Temporary signs may not be independently illuminated.
   F.   Exemption for Addressing: The posting of building addresses in
locations that are visible from the street is necessary for the effective
delivery of public safety services; and the efficient and timely delivery of
emergency services is a compelling governmental interest. Accordingly, the
Village requires that street addresses be posted to be readily visible from
adjacent rights-of-way. Because address signs are required, numbers and letters
used for addressing are not included in the calculation of sign area so long as
they are less than fourteen (14") inches in height in all but I-1 and I-
2 Zoning Districts, or as otherwise approved by the Fire Chief.
   G.   Non-Conforming Signs:
      1.   All Signs: Any sign lawfully existing or under construction with
permit on the effective date of this Chapter that does not conform to the
provisions contained herein may be continued or maintained but may not be
replaced, structurally altered, re-established (if abandoned) or continued if
destroyed or damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its
replacement cost.
      2.   Pole Signs: Pole signs installed or issued a permit prior to the
effective date of this Chapter shall be considered legally non-conforming and
may continue provided that:
         a.   The sign face of a legally non-conforming sign may be maintained,
repaired or replaced with an identical sign face.
         b.   Any sign must be removed and replaced with a sign that conforms
to the requirements of this Chapter if the support structure of the legally
non-conforming signs requires significant repair.
         c.   Any sign must be removed and replaced with a sign that conforms
to the requirements of this Chapter if it is destroyed or damaged and requires
repairs costing more than fifty percent (50%) of replacement value of such
sign.
         d.   Any pole sign must be removed and replaced with a sign that
conforms to the requirements of this Chapter if the property on which such sign
is located redevelops to the extent that;
            i.   The principal structure on the same development site is
removed or replaced; or
            ii.   The principal structure on the same development site is
enlarged by more than thirty percent (30%) of its existing square footage; or
            iii.   Renovation is performed on more than fifty percent (50%) of
the interior of the principal structure on the same development site.
      3.   Existing Electronic Message Signs: All electronic message signs
installed or issued a Building Permit prior to adoption of this Chapter shall
be permitted to be repaired or replaced provided that:
         a.   The sign shall substantially conform to the original installation
plans approved by the Village; and
         b.   All sign operation regulations set forth in this Chapter are met.
   H.   Prohibited Signs: The following signs are prohibited in all areas of
the Village:
      1.   A-Frame Signs;
      2.   Animated signs or signs supported by manufactured air pressure;
      3.   Attention getting devices, including but not limited to
searchlights, pennants, propellers, spinners, streamers, balloons and similar
devices;
      4.   Billboards;
      5.   Feather signs;
      6.   Flashing signs and devices;
      7.   Signs lit by any revolving or rotating beams or beacons;
      8.   Moving signs (except barber poles, electronic message signs, flags,
street clocks and other signs as specifically permitted by this Chapter);
      9.   Off-premises signs;
      10.   Painted wall signs;
      11.   Pole signs;
      12.   Portable signs;
      13.   Roof signs except signs painted flat upon the roof surface that can
be seen only from the air are permitted in B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, ITC, OT, I-1 and
I-2 Zoning Districts;
      14.   Vehicle signs; and
      15.   Other signs as may be prohibited in the Elk Grove Village Code.
[IMAGE]
   I.   Prohibited Locations: In addition to the setback requirements of this
Chapter, and the other restrictions of the Village Zoning Ordinance, all signs
shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   A minimum clear sight line distance at all intersections shall be
provided in keeping with sight triangle requirements specified in Section 3-2-
A of the Village Zoning Ordinance;
      2.   Signs may not obstruct traffic sight lines or traffic control
signals at street intersections or railroad crossings;
      3.   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any building or structure;
      4.   Signs that resemble or simulate official traffic control signs may
not be visible from a street or right-of-way;
      5.   Signs may not be in or over public rights-of-way, except:
         a.   Traffic control signs installed by a governmental entity, or
which are required to be installed by a governmental entity; and
         b.   Signs posted by the Village.
      6.   No sign shall be posted, installed or mounted on any of the
following locations:
         a.   Trees; or
         b.   Utility poles including, but not limited to, light poles or
utility cabinets, except signs posted by the Village or the utility that are
necessary for public safety or identification of the facility by the utility
provider.
   J.   Prohibited Design Elements: The following elements shall not be used as
an element of signs or sign structures, whether temporary or permanent:
      1.   Flashing lights;
      2.   Motor vehicles, unless:
         a.   The vehicles are functional, used as motor vehicles and have
current registration and tags;
         b.   The display of signage is incidental to the motor vehicle use;
and
         c.   The motor vehicle is parked behind the principal building or in a
manner not readily visible from a right-of-way.
      3.   Semi-trailers, shipping containers, portable storage units or
similar type structures unless:
         a.   The trailers, containers, portable storage units or similar type
structures are functional, used for their primary storage purpose and, if
subject to registration, have current registration and tags;
         b.   The display of signage is incidental to the use for temporary
storage, pick-up or delivery; and
         c.   The semi-trailer, shipping containers, portable storage units or
similar type structures are positioned in a loading or storage area designated
and approved by the Village.
      4.   Spinning or moving parts;
      5.   Materials, including combustible material, not otherwise approved
for signs by the Village Code.
   K.   Prohibited Content: The following content is prohibited without
reference to the viewpoint of the individual source (the narrow classifications
of content that are prohibited by this Subsection are either not protected by
the United States or Illinois Constitutions, or are offered limited protection
that is outweighed by the substantial governmental interests in protecting the
public safety and welfare):
      1.   Text or graphics that present a clear and present danger due to
their potential confusion with traffic control signs or signs that provide
public safety;
      2.   Text or graphics of an indecent or immoral nature and harmful to
minors;
      3.   Text or graphics that advertise unlawful activity; and
      4.   Text or graphics that are obscene, fighting words, defamation,
incitement to imminent lawless action or true threats.
   L.   Variations: Variations to the requirements of this Chapter are
considered and may be granted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, as part of
their exclusive legislative authority and jurisdiction, and the Village’s home
rule powers, provided that:
      1.   The procedures and standards for variations in the Village Zoning
Ordinance, Section 8-3-C are followed. The Director of Community Development
shall provide all relevant materials to the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      2.   In addition to the unique physical condition standard for variations
in the Village Zoning Ordinance Subsection 8-3-C5a, the Village shall consider
the extent to which a sign installed per this Chapter is sufficiently visible
from the adjacent right-of-way. Lack of visibility may be considered a unique
physical condition hardship as part of the Village’s determination in approving
a variation.
   M.   Amendments: Amendments to the provisions of this Chapter are considered
and may be granted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, as part of their
exclusive legislative authority and jurisdiction, and the Village’s home rule
powers. The procedures and standards for amendments to this Chapter, shall
follow those described in Section 8-3-D of the Village Zoning Ordinance. The
Director of Community Development shall provide all relevant materials to the
Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   N.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
a minimum of fifty dollars ($50) and up to seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each and every offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
§ 8-4-3 SIGN PERMITS.
   A.   Permit Required: No sign shall be erected, constructed, relocated or
structurally altered, within the Village without having obtained a permit as
provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Application: Application for sign permits under this Chapter shall be
made upon forms approved by the Village Attorney and shall contain or have
attached thereto the following information:
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the premises and
sign;
      2.   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising device is to be attached or erected;
      3.   A plat of survey of the property showing accurate placement thereon
of the proposed sign;
      4.   Plans as to the specifications and method of construction and
attachment to the building or in the ground;
      5.   A copy of the stress sheets and calculations prepared by or approved
by an engineer licensed in the State of Illinois showing that the sign is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any direction in the amount
required by the Village Code, unless exempted by the Director of Community
Development;
      6.   Name of person or company erecting the sign;
      7.   A bond, when required by the Village;
      8.   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator may require
showing full compliance with this and other Village regulations; and
      9.   The Village may require applicants to submit photometric plans
demonstrating compliance with this Chapter as a condition of issuing a sign
permit.
   C.   Permit Fees: Every applicant, before being granted a permit per this
Chapter, shall pay to the Village a sign permit fee. The fees for such permits
shall be as prescribed from time to time by resolution of the Mayor and Board
of Trustees.
   D.   Issuance of Permit: It shall be the duty of the Director of Community
Development or their designee, after examination of an application for a sign
permit, to issue said permit if, in their opinion the application is complete,
in good form and complies with all requirements set forth in this Chapter and
other Village regulations.
   E.   Expiration of Permit: If the work authorized under a valid sign permit
has not been completed within one (1) year after date of issuance, said permit
shall be null and void.
   F.   All construction, relocation, enlargement, alteration and modification
of signs within the Village shall conform to the requirements of this Chapter,
as well as all State and Federal regulations concerning signs and advertising,
including but not limited to the following specific items:
      1.   The structure supporting any sign shall be securely anchored to the
ground in keeping with requirements of Title 8, Chapter 3: Building Activity
Code of the Village Code;
      2.   All signs shall be constructed to withstand a wind pressure of
thirty (30) pounds per square foot, except as may be required by other Village
regulations, and except for signs for which no permit is required; and
      3.   Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety glass.
§ 8-4-4 SIGN MEASUREMENT STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall control the measurement of sign area.
[IMAGE]
   A.   Sign Surface Area:
      1.   Sign surface area is calculated as the entire area within a single
continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the surface on which the
sign is located.
      2.   Sign surface area does not include any structural elements outside
the limits of a sign and not forming an integral part of the display.
      3.   All sides of a multiple faced sign structure shall be used in
computing total surface area, except where specific provision is made to the
contrary.
[IMAGE]
   B.   Sign Face:
      1.   Wall Signs: A two-dimensional area on the facade of a building that
describes the largest square, rectangle or parallelogram which is free of
architectural details.
      2.   Window Signs: The area of glass within a window frame.
      3.   Other Signs: The portion of the sign surface area designed to be
used for text and graphics. The sign face does not include the sign’s
supporting frame or structure, provided that such frame or structure is not
designed to display text or graphics.
§ 8-4-5 PERMANENT SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT.
   Permanent signs identified below shall be allowed in Elk Grove Village
subject to the regulations of this Chapter, provisions of the Village Code and
receipt of a sign and/or Building Permit as may be required and approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
   A.   Awning Signs: Awnings that do not display signs are not subject to the
regulations of this Section.
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location: Awning signs are allowed in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business
Districts and in all Residential Zoning Districts for multi-unit dwelling uses
and non-residential uses.
      2.   Size:
         a.   Valance – Eighty percent (80%) of the awning valance area may be
used for signage.
         b.   Top and Side Face – Fifty percent (50%) of the combined awning
top and side face area may be used for signage
         c.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the allowable wall sign
area can be used on the awnings of the establishment.
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   One (1) sign is permitted per awning top face;
         b.   Awning signs shall be displayed on awnings constructed out of
durable, weather-resistant material such as canvas, nylon, vinyl-coated fabric
or metal;
         c.   Awning with signs and awning signs shall be generally aligned
with awning and awning signs that are attached to adjacent storefronts or
buildings to maintain a sense of visual continuity;
         d.   Awning signs shall not be backlit or otherwise internally
illuminated; and
         e.   All awnings with signs and awning signs shall be erected to have
a clearance of not less than seven and one-half feet (7.5') above the level of
the adjacent sidewalk.
   B.   Canopy-Mounted Signs:
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location: Canopy signs are allowed in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business
Districts and in all Residential Zoning Districts for multi-unit dwelling uses
and non-residential uses.
      2.   Size:
         a.   Valence – Fifty percent (50%) of the canopy valence area may be
used for signage.
         b.   Front Face – Fifty percent (50%) of the front face of the canopy
area be used for signage.
         c.   Top Face – No signs may be located on the top face of a canopy.
         d.   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the allowable wall sign
area can be used on canopies of the establishment.
         e.   Canopy signs located at Fueling Station uses:
            i.   Valence – Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total valance area
of a fueling station canopy may include signage.
            ii.   Front Face – Twenty-five percent (25%) of the total front
face area of a fueling station canopy may include signage.
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   The canopy upon which the canopy sign is displayed may not
project more than six feet (6') from the front, side, rear or corner side
façade of the building to which it is attached unless greater restriction are
required by the Zoning Ordinance.
         b.   The canopy of a fueling station use upon which the canopy sign is
displayed need not be attached to the principal structure on site.
         c.   The canopy upon which the canopy sign is displayed shall have a
clearance of at least seven and one-half feet (7.5') above grade, and the
canopy sign shall not extend below the lowest point of the canopy on which it
is displayed.
   C.   Monument Signs:
[IMAGE]
      1.   All monument signs shall comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Monument signs shall be mounted on a monument style base that is
at least as wide as the sign face, be a minimum of one and a half feet (1.5')
in height and composed of a natural masonry finish such as brick or stone
matching the principal building or such other material approved by the Zoning
Administrator as found to be of equal aesthetic value as the requirements of
this Subsection;
         b.   Monument signs shall be located within a minimum two hundred
(200') square foot landscape area, not including the area of the sign, and
integrated into the overall site design, including use of berming, landscaping
and decorative hardscape as approved by the Zoning Administrator;
         c.   Monument signs shall maintain a minimum front yard setback of
five feet (5');
         d.   Monument signs shall maintain a minimum side yard setback of ten
feet (10');
         e.   In the case of corner lots, permitted monument signs shall be in
keeping with sight triangle requirements specified in Section 3-2-A of the
Village Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   Monument signs in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business Zoning Districts:
         a.   Monument Signs on Single Tenant properties shall meet the
following requirements:
            i.   No monument sign shall exceed eight feet (8') in height from
grade to the top of the sign;
            ii.   No monument sign shall exceed ten feet (10') in width;
            iii.   No monument sign shall exceed forty-five (45') square feet
in area for single faced signs;
            iv.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety (90') square feet in
area for multi-faced signs; and
            v.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per property.
         b.   Monument Signs on Multiple Tenant properties having an aggregate
floor area of more than one hundred thousand (100,000') square feet shall meet
the following requirements:
            i.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed for a shopping center,
as defined in this Chapter, unless the shopping center abuts more than one (1)
public street, in which case up to two (2) monument signs may be erected
provided that no more than one (1) such sign is erected per street frontage;
            ii.   No monument sign shall exceed eighteen feet (18') in height
from grade to the top of the sign;
            iii.   No monument sign shall exceed ten feet (10') in width;
            iv.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety-six (96') square feet in
area if the sign is single faced;
            v.   No monument sign shall exceed one hundred ninety-two (192')
square feet in area if the sign is multi-faced; and
            vi.   When a shopping center includes an outlot and is comprised of
more than one (1) lot, a monument sign shall be permitted for a freestanding
building located on an outlot that is contiguous to the main shopping center
lot, provided that the outlot is greater than twenty thousand (20,000') square
feet in area. Such signs shall meet the requirements of Section
8-4-5-C-1 and
8-4-5-C-2-a of this Chapter.
         c.   Monument Signs on Multiple Tenant properties having an aggregate
floor area of less than one hundred thousand (100,000') square feet shall meet
the following requirements:
            i.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed for a shopping center,
as defined in this Chapter, unless the shopping center abuts more than one (1)
public street, in which case up to two (2) monument signs may be erected
provided that no more than one (1) such sign is erected per street frontage;
            ii.   No monument sign shall exceed forty-five (45') square feet in
area for single faced signs;
            iii.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety (90') square feet in
area if the sign is multi-faced signs;
            iv.   No monument sign shall case exceed a total height of twelve
feet (12') from the ground to the top of the sign; and
            v.   When a shopping center includes an outlot and is comprised of
more than one (1) lot, a monument sign shall be permitted for a freestanding
building located on an outlot that is contiguous to the main shopping center
lot, provided that the outlot is greater than twenty thousand (20,000') square
feet in area. Such signs shall meet the requirements of Section
8-4-5-C-1 and
8-4-5-C-2-a of this Chapter.
      3.   Monument Signs in the Innovation and Technology Center (ITC) Zoning
District shall comply with the ITC Design Guidelines and meet the following
requirements:
         a.   One (1) monument sign shall be permitted per parcel;
         b.   Any multi-tenant monument sign shall have signage divided equally
among the available tenant space;
         c.   Shall be internally illuminated;
         d.   No monument sign shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in height from
grade to the top of the sign;
         e.   No monument sign shall exceed fifteen feet (15') feet in width;
and
         f.   No monument sign shall exceed eighty (80') square feet per face;
      4.   Monument Signs in Residential Zoning Districts shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   One (1) monument sign shall be permitted per multiple-family
development and nonresidential uses in Residential Zoning Districts;
         b.   No monument sign shall exceed six feet (6') in height from grade
to the top of the sign;
         c.   No monument sign shall exceed forty-five (45') square feet in
area for single faced signs;
         d.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety (90') square feet in area
for multi-faced signs; and
         e.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per property.
      5.   Monument Signs in OT Zoning Districts shall meet the following
requirements, unless otherwise indicated in this Chapter:
         a.   One (1) monument sign shall be permitted per property;
         b.   No monument sign shall exceed six feet (6') in height from grade
to the top of the sign;
         c.   No monument sign shall exceed thirty-nine (45') square feet in
area for single faced signs; and
         d.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety (90') square feet in area
for multi-faced signs.
      6.   Monument Signs in I-1 and I-2 Industrial Zoning Districts shall meet
the following requirements:
         a.   Single Tenant Properties:
            i.   No monument sign shall exceed six feet (6') in height from
grade to the top of the sign;
            ii.   No monument sign shall exceed thirty-nine (39') square feet
in area for single faced signs;
            iii.   No monument sign shall exceed seventy-eight (78') square
feet in area for multi-faced signs; and
            iv.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per property.
         b.   Multiple Tenant Properties:
            i.   No monument sign shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height from
grade to the top of the sign;
            ii.   No monument sign shall exceed forty-five (45') square feet in
area for single faced signs;
            iii.   No monument sign shall exceed ninety (90') square feet in
area for multi-faced signs; and
            iv.   One (1) monument sign shall be allowed per property.
         c.   Monument signs in the Elk Grove Technology Park shall meet the
standards set in the Elk Grove Technology Park Design Guidelines.
   D.   Projecting (Blade) Signs
[IMAGE]
      1.   Projecting signs are permitted on properties in the B-1, B-2 and B-
3 Business Zoning Districts and in I-1 and I-2 Industrial Zoning Districts;
      2.   One (1) projecting sign is allowed per ground floor tenant and shall
be located above the main entry door or a main window of said tenant space;
      3.   Projecting signs shall not exceed ten (10') square feet in size;
      4.   Projecting signs shall not extend more than three feet (3') from the
building;
      5.   Projecting signs shall not extend above the fascia or parapet line
of the structure on which they are mounted; and
      6.   Projecting signs shall have minimum clearance of seven and one half
feet (7.5') from grade to the bottom of the sign.
   E.   Wall Signs
[IMAGE]
      1.   Wall signs are permitted on properties in the B-1, B-2, B-3, I-1, I-
2, ITC and OT Zoning Districts;
      2.   Wall signs in the ITC Zoning District shall comply with the below
requirements along with the standards set in the ITC Design Guidelines;
      3.   Wall signs for parcels in the Elk Grove Technology Park shall comply
with the standards set in the Elk Grove Technology Park Design Guidelines;
      4.   The total area of all wall signs on a property shall not exceed
three (3') square feet for each linear foot of building frontage. Any portion
of a principal structure fronting or facing toward a street shall be computed
as store frontage;
      5.   Wall signs shall not extend above the fascia or parapet line of the
structure on which they are mounted; and
      6.   Wall signs may be internally or externally illuminated.
   F.   Window Sign:
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location: Window signs are allowed in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 Zoning
Districts.
      2.   Size: Window signs:
         a.   May occupy a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the total
ground floor window area on each building façade or a total of forty-five (45')
square feet in size, whichever is less.
         b.   Total window area on which to define permitted sign area shall
include all glazed window areas.
      3.   Additional regulations:
         a.   Window signs shall not be located above the ground floor level.
         b.   Signs or other attention getting devices inside a structure and
designed to be viewed from the outside, and which are located within twenty-
four inches (24") of any window that are visible from outside of the structure
shall be considered window signs.
   G.   Manual Changeable Copy Signs:
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location: Manual changeable copy signs are permitted only in a
Residential or OT Zoning District as an accessory to a principal building on
property used as: Government Buildings and Facilities, Schools, Religious
Institutions or Public Recreational Uses.
      2.   Size: Manual changeable copy signs shall:
         a.   Not exceed fifty (50') square feet per face, excluding
architectural elements that do not contain signage;
         b.   Not exceed eight feet (8') in height;
         c.   Not exceed eight feet (8') in width; and
         d.   Be allowed to be ten feet (10') in height if located along the
following corridors: Biesterfield Road, Meacham Road, Arlington Heights Road,
Rohlwing Road, Devon Avenue, Landmeier Road, Higgins Road (IL-72) and Busse
Road (IL-83).
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   Manual changeable copy signs shall be designed as a single sided
monument sign.
         b.   Manual changeable copy signs shall be mounted on a monument style
base that is at least as wide as the sign face, be a minimum of two feet (2')
in height and composed of a natural masonry finish such as brick or stone
matching the principal building or such other material approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         c.   Manual changeable copy signs shall be located within a minimum
two hundred (200') square foot landscape area, not including the area of the
sign, and integrated into the overall site design, including use of berming,
landscaping and decorative hardscape as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   H.   Electronic Changeable Copy Signs:
      1.   Electronic Changeable Copy Signs for Multi-Tenant Buildings:
[IMAGE]
         a.   Location: Electronic changeable copy signs shall be permitted:
            i.   In any Commercial, Industrial or Office Zoning District
provided that it is on a property abutting the right-of-way of one (1) of the
following roadways: Biesterfield Road, Meacham Road, Arlington Heights Road,
Rohlwing Road, Devon Avenue, Landmeier Road, Higgins Road (IL-72) and Busse
Road (IL-83);
            ii.   In a Residential or OT Zoning District as an accessory to a
principal building on property used as: Government Buildings and Facilities,
Schools, Religious Institutions or Public Recreational Uses; or
            iii.   On a Commercial or Industrial Zoned property that includes
at least one (1) multi-tenant building consisting of six (6) or more tenants.
         b.   Size: Electronic changeable copy signs shall:
            i.   Not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height;
            ii.   Not exceed fifteen feet (15') in width;
            iii.   Not exceed eighty (80') square feet per sign face when
located as permitted in a Residential or OT Zoning District;
            iv.   Not exceed forty (40') square feet per sign face if located
along one (1) of the roadways specified in Subsection H-1-a above.
            v.   Not exceed twenty-five (25') square feet of electronic message
area per sign face if located in any Commercial, Industrial or Office Zoning
District, but not along one (1) of the corridors specified in Subsection H-1-
a above;
            vi.   Not take up more than forty percent (40%) of electronic
message area for each sign face; and
            vii.   The square footage of each sign face shall be included in
the calculation of the total area of monument signs allowed for the property.
         c.   Additional Regulations: Electronic changeable copy signs for
multi-tenant buildings shall comply with the following requirements:
            i.   The sign shall meet the setback, landscaping and size
regulations in this Chapter;
            ii.   The electronic message portion shall be located below the
fixed identification section;
            iii.   The sign shall not include flashing, blinking, chasing,
strobe features, sounds, animations or other attention-seeking effects;
            iv.   The sign shall be equipped with both a programmed dimming
sequence as well as an additional overriding mechanical photocell that adjusts
the brightness of the display to the ambient light at all times of day. Such
programming and mechanical equipment shall be set so that the electronic sign,
at night or in overcast conditions, will be no more than forty percent (40%) of
the daytime brightness level;
            v.   The sign shall be extinguished from eleven o’clock (11:00)
P.M. to six o’clock (6:00) A.M., except for businesses licensed to operate
later than eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., the end time shall coincide with their
close of business;
            vi.   Signs located on properties abutting Residential Zoning
Districts shall be turned off between eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M.;
            vii.   The sign shall be constructed as a Monument Sign;
            viii.   The sign shall not share the structure of any Manual
Changeable Copy Sign;
            ix.   Sign placement shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator
so as to not create a hazardous traffic condition on the site or in
relationship to an intersection;
            x.   Sign size limits do not include architectural or structure
elements that do not contain signage;
            xi.   Signs shall not have more than two (2) sign faces;
            xii.   Signs shall not display any video, animation or moving
pictures or simulate any movement or the optical illusion of movement of any
part of the sign text, design or pictorial segment, including the movement of
any illumination or the flashing or varying of light intensity;
            xiii.   Transition from one (1) message to another shall be
instantaneous, without movement or other transition effects between messages;
and
            xiv.   Messages shall not change more frequently than once every
ten (10) seconds.
      2.   Electronic Changeable Copy Signs for Single Tenant Properties
[IMAGE]
      a.   Location: Electronic changeable copy signs shall be permitted:
         i.   In single lot properties in Business Zoning Districts with no
more than one (1) tenant.
      b.   Size: Electronic changeable copy signs shall;
         i.   Not exceed ten feet (10') in height;
         ii.   Not exceed eight feet (8') in width;
         iii.   Not exceed eight (80') square feet permit sign face;
         iv.   Not take up more than twenty-five percent (25%) of electronic
message area for each sign face.
      c.   Additional Regulations: Electronic changeable copy signs for single
tenant properties shall comply with the following requirements:
         i.   The sign shall meet the setback, landscaping and size regulations
in this Chapter;
         ii.   The electronic message portion shall be located below the fixed
identification section;
         iii.   The sign shall not display any video, graphics, animation or
moving pictures or simulate any movement or the optical illusion of movement of
any part of the sign text, design or pictorial segment, including the movement
of any illumination or the flashing or varying of light intensity;
         iv.   The electronic message portion shall be monochromatic. The
background of the electronic message portion must remain black at all times and
the messages text color shall be white;
         v.   The sign shall be equipped with both a programmed dimming
sequence as well as an additional overriding mechanical photocell that adjusts
the brightness of the display to the ambient light at all times of day. Such
programming and mechanical equipment shall be set so that the electronic sign,
at night or in overcast conditions, will be no more than forty percent (40%) of
the daytime brightness level;
         vi.   The sign shall be extinguished from eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
to six o’clock (6:00) A.M., except for businesses licensed to operate later
than eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M., the end time shall coincide with their close
of business;
         vii.   Signs located on properties abutting Residential Zoning
Districts shall be turned off between eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M.;
         viii.   The sign shall be constructed as a Monument Sign;
         ix.   The sign shall not share the structure of any Manual Changeable
Copy Sign;
         x.   Sign placement shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator so
as to not create a hazardous traffic condition on the site or in relationship
to an intersection;
         xi.   Sign size limits do not include architectural or structure
elements that do not contain signage; and
         xii.   Signs shall not have more than two (2) sign faces.
         xiii.   Transition from one (1) message to another shall be
instantaneous, without movement or other transition effects between messages;
and
         xiv.   Messages shall not change more frequently than once every one
(1) minute.
      3.   Operation and Use: All electronic changeable copy signs shall be
equipped to override commercial messages for emergency situations such as an
“Amber Alert” or such other public emergency. The sign owner shall provide the
Village with contact people who can activate the override upon request by the
Village.
      4.   Design:
         a.   Signs shall be mounted on a monument style base that is at least
as wide as the sign face, be a minimum of two feet (2') in height and composed
of a natural masonry finish such as brick or stone matching the principal
building or such other material approved by the Zoning Administrator as found
to be of equal aesthetic value as the requirements of this Subsection;
         b.   Signs shall be located within a minimum two hundred (200') square
foot landscape area, not including the area of the sign, and integrated into
the overall site design, including use of berming, landscaping and decorative
hardscape as approved by the Zoning Administrator; and
         c.   Each electronic sign face shall be antiglare.
      5.   Existing Signs: All electronic changeable copy signs granted
approval prior to adoption of this Chapter shall be permitted to repair or
replace the sign under the following conditions:
         a.   The sign shall substantially conform to the original installation
plans approved by the Village; and
         b.   All sign operation regulations set forth in this Chapter shall
apply.
      6.   Fueling stations may have an electronic changeable copy sign for
that portion of a sign that displays the price of fuel in keeping with the
following:
         a.   The sign is divided into no more than three (3) separate
displays;
         b.   The total sign dace that incorporates the three (3) displays
shall not exceed sixty (60') square feet;
         c.   The sign area shall not exceed twelve (12') square feet in total
nor four (4') square feet per display;
         d.   Digits in the displays shall not exceed twelve inches (12") in
height;
         e.   Each display is limited to four (4) numerical digits or
fractions; and
         f.   All electronic messages must remain static.
   I.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall require a Building Permit and be
allowed in non-single-family residential properties, subject to the following
conditions:
[IMAGE]
      1.   One (1) temporary sign may be displayed on a property at any time;
      2.   Temporary signs shall not exceed forty-five (45') square feet in
area. If a multi-faced sign is erected, the combined areas of all signage shall
not exceed forty-five (45') square feet in area;
      3.   Temporary signs may be displayed for no more than thirty (30)
calendar days in a twelve (12) month period;
      4.   Temporary signs shall be prohibited within the Biesterfield/
Arlington Corridor as defined in this Chapter;
      5.   Temporary signs shall be installed completely on private property
and comply with the sight triangle requirements specified in Section 3-2-A of
the Village Zoning Ordinance;
      6.   Approval of the Zoning Administrator shall be required for all
temporary signs to be displayed for a period in excess of thirty (30) calendar
days in a twelve (12) month period. In evaluating whether such an extension may
be granted the Zoning Administrator shall find that all the following exist:
         a.   Conditions related to the request are based upon unique
conditions of the building/property; and
         b.   The sign shall be removed within three (3) days after the sign no
longer meets its intended purpose, but in no event shall the sign be up longer
than one year.
      7.   For any temporary sign approved to be displayed for more than thirty
(30) calendar days in a twelve (12) month period, a maintenance agreement shall
be provided by the property owner or sign permit applicant to outline regular
sign maintenance. Such maintenance shall be performed at not less than thirty
(30) calendar day intervals; and
      8.   In the B-3 Business Zoning District, up to two (2) temporary signs
may be permitted provided each sign meets the requirements of this Chapter.
   J.   Incidental Signs: Incidental Signs shall require a Building Permit and
be allowed in non-single-family residential properties, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   Location: The number of Incidental Signs shall not exceed one (1)
per each vehicle ingress/egress location into said property along with one (1)
per street frontage;
      2.   Size: Incidental Signs shall be sized in accordance with the
following:
         a.   Incidental Signs shall not exceed six (6') square feet per sign
face on properties with less than one hundred (100') feet of street frontage.
         b.   Incidental Signs shall not exceed ten (10') square feet per sign
face on properties with one hundred (100') feet – five hundred (500') feet of
street frontage.
         c.   Incidental Signs shall not exceed twenty (20') square feet per
sign face on properties with five hundred (500') feet – one thousand (1,000’)
feet of street frontage.
         d.   Incidental Signs shall not exceed a height of five (5') feet
above finished grade;
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   Incidental Signs shall be designed so that the entire bottom is
in contact with or in close proximity to the ground; and
         b.   Incidental Signs shall be installed completely on private
property and comply with the sight triangle requirement specified in Section 3-
2-A of the Village Zoning Ordinance.
§ 8-4-6 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMIT.
   This Section sets out the forms of signs not requiring a permit from the
Village, the signs allowed in certain Zoning Districts and the standards that
apply to them.
   A.   Temporary Window Signs:
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location: Temporary window signs are allowed in all Residential,
Industrial and B-1, B-2 and B-3 Business Zoning Districts.
      2.   Size:
         a.   Temporary window signs shall not occupy more than twenty-five
percent (25%) of the total ground floor window area on each building façade;
and
         b.   Total window area on which to define permitted sign area shall
include all glazed window areas.
      3.   Additional regulations:
         a.   One (1) temporary window sign shall be permitted per glazed
window area;
         b.   Temporary window signs shall not be located above the ground
floor level; and
         c.   Temporary window signs are limited to a display period of thirty
(30) continuous calendar days no more than four (4) times per year, for a total
of no more than one hundred twenty (120) days.
   B.   Yard Signs:
      1.   Location: Yard signs are allowed in all Residential and OT Zoning
Districts.
      2.   Size:
         a.   Yard signs shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area;
         b.   Yard signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height; and
         c.   If more than one (1) yard sign is erected, the combined areas of
all signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet.
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   Two (2) yard signs are allowed per street frontage;
         b.   The display of temporary signs shall be limited to a cumulative
total of one hundred twenty (120) calendar days per calendar year per premises;
         c.   Yard signs shall be a minimum of five feet (5') from any property
line; and
         d.   Yard signs shall not create a hazard for any person or property.
   C.   Signs Adjacent to Drive-Thru Lanes:
[IMAGE]
      1.   Location:
         a.   Signs Adjacent to Drive-Thru Lanes are allowed as part of any
drive-thru establishment in the B-1, B-2, B-3 and B-5 Business Zoning
Districts.
         b.   Signs Adjacent to Drive-Thru Lanes shall be located a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from any lot line of a property located in a Residential
Zoning District.
      2.   Size: Signs Adjacent to Drive-Thru Lanes shall not exceed one
hundred (100') square feet in area and seven and one-half feet (7.5') in
height.
      3.   Additional Regulations:
         a.   Signs adjacent to drive-thru lanes signs may be displayed as wall
signs, monument or pole signs;
         b.   Up to two (2) signs adjacent to drive-thru lanes are allowed per
drive-thru lane, and when added together shall not exceed the size allowed for
one (1) such sign;
         c.   Internally illuminated signs adjacent to drive-thru lanes are
allowed only in accordance with Subsection
8-4-2E; and
         d.   Menu boards may include an electronic screen to display
information to customers.
   D.   Other Signs not Requiring a Sign Permit:
      1.   Interior Signs: Signs, four (4) square feet or less, intended to
provide information for interior use of a property and that are not visible
from abutting property or public rights-of-way;
      2.   Official and Legal Notice: Official and legal notice signs that are
issued by any court, public body, person or officer in performance of a public
duty, or in giving any legal notice;
      3.   Signs with De Minimis Area: Signs no greater than three-fourths (3/
4) of a square foot in area that are affixed to a building or structure even if
wall signs are not permitted in the Zoning District or for the use, or affixed
to machines, equipment, fences, gates, walls, gasoline pumps, public telephones
or utility cabinets;
      4.   Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs and other signs related
to public safety installed by or at the direction of the Village or other
government agency having jurisdiction over a right-of-way; and
      5.   Window Displays: Merchandise, fixtures or models of products
incorporated into a window display.
§ 8-4-7 SIGN RELATED DEFINITIONS.
   BIESTERFIELD/ARLINGTON CORRIDOR: That area of land abutting Biesterfield
Road, between Wellington Avenue on the West and Arlington Heights Road on the
East lying within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the centerline of
Biesterfield Road and that area of land abutting Arlington Heights Road located
within the shopping center located at the southwest corner of Arlington Heights
Road and Biesterfield Road, and within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
centerline of Arlington Heights Road.
   COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: Any material more than one-twentieth inch (1/20") in
thickness which burns at a rate of not more than two and one-half inches (2 1/
2") per minute when subjected to ASTM standard test for flammability in sheets
of six one-hundredths inch (0.06") thickness.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, EXTERNAL: A sign illuminated by a source of light that is
cast upon the surface or sign face to illuminate by reflection only.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN, INTERNAL: A sign illuminated by a source of artificial
light that emanates through transparent or translucent material from the
interior of the sign structure or individual letters as may comprise the sign
face.
   OUTLOT: A parcel of land located within a shopping center, as defined in
this Chapter, that may share a common parking lot with the other buildings and
establishments within that shopping center, but is separated from the principal
building(s) and establishment(s) by a parking or landscape area.
   SHOPPING CENTER: Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores and/or
service establishments in one (1) or more buildings, or on one (1) or more
adjacent lots, under single ownership or management and sharing facilities such
as parking, utilities and ingress/egress.
   SIGN: Any object or device containing letters, figures and/or other means of
communication or part thereof, situated outdoors or indoors, of which the
effect produced is to advertise, announce, communicate, identify, declare,
demonstrate, direct, display and/or instruct potential users of a use, product
and/or service.
   SIGN, A-FRAME. A type of portable sign that is intended to be placed on a
hard surface, most commonly a sidewalk.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign, or any part thereof which changes physical
position by means of movement, rotation or change in illumination to depict
movement.
   SIGN, AWNING: A sign that is mounted, painted or attached to an awning or
other window or door canopy. Any projecting canvas or other material over a
structural framework used for a small amount of shelter or shade on a facade
that has signage displayed on the visible surface.
   SIGN, BANNER: Any printed sign or canvass used for attracting the attention
of the public. All Banner Signs shall also be considered as “Temporary Signs”.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD: Any sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where such
sign is located.
   SIGN, CANOPY: A permanent advertising sign located on a canopy.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY/ELECTRONIC (also, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS): Any sign
which uses changing (also known as traveling) lights to form a sign message or
messages, wherein the sequence of the message and the rate of change is
electronically, electrically or automatically programmed and may be modified by
electronic, electric or automatic processes.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY/MANUAL: A sign wherein a changeable message of
graphics or letters is provided upon a surface area manually.
   SIGN CLEARANCE: Sign clearance is the distance between the bottom of a sign
face or structural element that is not affixed to the ground and the nearest
point on the surface under it.
   SIGN, FEATHER: A sign typically supported on a single pole with the message
on one (1) side of that pole and unsupported on the other.
   SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times. Illuminated signs
which indicate the time, temperature, weather or other similar information
shall not be considered “Flashing Signs”.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which is illuminated by electric lights or
luminous devices as part of the sign proper.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL: Any sign on a lot that is not defined as any other
permitted sign per this Section
8-4-7, is normally incidental to the allowed use of the property, and has no
wording or representation that, directly or indirectly, names, advertises or
calls attention to a business, product, service, or other commercial activity
on the lot.
   SIGN, MONUMENT: A sign, not attached to any building or premises, which
advertises or identifies the business conducted on the premises, in which the
entire bottom is in contact with or close to the ground.
   SIGN, MOVING. Any sign that has any external or visible part or parts that
move, rotate or spin.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISES: A sign advertising a land use, business, product or
service not located or available upon the premises whereon the sign is located.
   SIGN, PAINTED WALL: A sign that comprises only paint applied on a building
or structure.
   SIGN, PERMANENT: A sign constructed of durable material and affixed,
lettered, attached to or placed upon a fixed, nonmovable, nonportable
supporting structure.
   SIGN, POLE: A sign that is affixed, attached or erected on a pole or poles
and that is not itself an integral part of or attached to a building or
structure, and has no above ground structural base on which the sign is
located.
   SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign that is designed to be easily moved from one location
to another, and when placed, is neither fastened to a permanent structure or
building, nor mounted in the ground. Portable signs include signs mounted on
trailers, wheeled carriers or frames that are designed to be placed onto a
surface without being secured to it.
   SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign supported by a building or other structure which
projects over any street, sidewalk, alley or public way or public easement also
known as “Blade” signs.
   SIGN, ROOF: Any sign erected, constructed or maintained wholly or partially
upon or above the fascia or parapet line of any building.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY: A structure or device used for the public display of
messages or images, which is easily installed and not intended or suitable for
long-term or permanent display due to lightweight or insubstantial construction
materials. Temporary signs shall be attached to a separate structure or
suspended between two (2) poles per the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   SIGN, VEHICLE: A sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and visible
from the public right-of way, unless said vehicle is used for transporting
people or materials in the normal operations of the business and it is properly
parked in a designated parking space. Signs attached to trailers or inoperable
vehicles are presumed to be vehicle signs if they are parked in plain view from
the right-of-way. Bumper stickers are not vehicle signs.
   SIGN, WALL: A sign attached to, or erected against a wall of a building,
whose display surface is parallel to the face of the building, structure or
fence, and whose height does not exceed the height of the wall, structure or
fence to which said sign is attached, or against which said sign is erected.
   SIGN, WINDOW: A sign which is applied or attached to the exterior of a
window, or applied to, attached to or located within twenty-four inches (24")
of the interior of a window, which can be seen through the window from the
exterior of the structure.
   SIGN, WINDOW/TEMPORARY: A sign made of paper that is attached to the
exterior or interior of a window.
   SIGN, YARD: A temporary, portable sign constructed of paper, vinyl, plastic,
wood, metal or other comparable material, and designed or intended to be
displayed for a short period of time. Also includes signs suspended from a
horizontal support (a swing post) that is attached to a vertical support
mounted in the ground.
   SIGN FACE: The area or display surface that contains the signage message.
   SIGN MESSAGE: The thought or idea conveyed or expressed by the words,
letters, insignia, figures, designs, fixtures, colors, motion, illumination,
sound or projecting images or any combination thereof.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: A sign structure shall include, but not be limited to, the
supports, uprights, braces, backing, sign board and framework designed to
contain a sign message. Sign structure is not meant to include the message
conveyed by the sign.
   SURFACE AREA OF SIGN: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the sign surface. It does not include any
structural elements outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. All sides of a multiple faced sign structure shall be used
in computing total surface area except where specific provision is made to the
contrary.
CHAPTER 5: MINIMUM SITE DEVELOPMENT AND LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
Section
   
8-5-1   Purpose
   
8-5-2   Screening and Landscaping Plan
   
8-5-3   Screening and Landscaping Requirements
   
8-5-4   Penalties
§ 8-5-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish minimum site development and
landscaping regulations for all office, business and industrial uses and
multiple-family residential uses of six (6) dwelling units or greater. The
regulations shall include screening to protect abutting properties, on-site
landscaping and the maintenance thereof. The provisions of this Chapter shall
not supersede screening or landscaping provisions of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance (see Chapter 11 of this Title) or the Zoning Ordinance but shall be
deemed additional obligations of the developer.
§ 8-5-2 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING PLAN.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit for any office, commercial or
industrial development or any multiple-family residential development of six
(6) dwelling family units or more, the developer shall submit to the Village a
screening and landscaping plan evidencing compliance with the terms and
conditions of this Chapter. Such plan must be approved by the Director of
Community Development (see Section
8-1-2 of this Title) and, where applicable, the Plan Commission (see Title 2,
Chapter 2 of this Code).
§ 8-5-3 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Screens: An opaque screen shall be installed and maintained along all
lot lines other than streets abutting areas zoned for residential use. Except
as otherwise provided, it shall have a total height of not less than six feet
(6') nor more than eight feet (8'). Where there is a difference in elevation on
opposite sides of the screen, the height shall be measured from the highest
elevation. A screen shall consist of one or more of the following types or as
otherwise approved by the Plan Commission.
      1.   Berms: A berm may be banked on both sides or with one side banked
toward the lot line with the retaining wall. A berm shall not be less than ten
feet (10') wide at the base and shall be constructed of earthen materials and
shall be landscaped.
      2.   Plants: Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall consist of
dense evergreen plants, deciduous plants and any mixture the Plan Commission
recommends and shall be of a kind and used in such a manner so as to provide
screening having a minimum width of three feet (3') within eighteen (18) months
after initial installation. Plant materials will not be limited to a maximum
height. The Director of Community Development may require that requirement
Subsection A1 above be installed in addition to plant materials if, after
eighteen (18) months after installation, plant materials have not formed an
opaque screen or if an opaque screen is not maintained.
      3.   Fencing of a type and in a location as approved by the Plan
Commission.
   B.   Landscaping: Landscaping consisting of standard, Village-approved
evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs in combination with vines, ground
cover and grass shall be installed and maintained according to the standards
hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that said requirements shall not be
applicable to industrial uses which are adjacent to other industrial uses or
industrial districts on all sides, unless adjacent to the following roadways:
Oakton Street, Busse Road, Devon Avenue, Elmhurst Road, Higgins Road and
Landmeier Road.
      1.   Boundary landscaping is required for a minimum depth of ten feet
(10') from the right-of-way line along all abutting streets or rights-of-way
except for the openings and the areas within ten feet (10') on either side of
street openings. Within this boundary landscaping area, there shall be the
equivalent of at least one standard tree and eight (8) standard shrubs for each
forty feet (40') of street frontage planted in a pleasing and practical
arrangement along the frontage. To the extent practicable, these shall include
any existing standard trees or shrubs within the boundary landscaping area.
      2.   An additional landscaped area equal to at least five percent (5%) of
the total area of the parcel is required. Within this area, the equivalent of
at least one standard tree and one standard shrub is required for each five
hundred (500) square feet or fraction thereof of an area to be landscaped.
      3.   Within the off-street parking area, planting areas containing one
standard tree for each twenty (20) parking spaces is required. Spacing shall be
subject to approval.
      4.   Planting areas shall be required by a spaded edge of wood, steel,
concrete or plastic edging. All earthen areas outside of prescribed planting
areas shall be covered with sod or other approved ground cover excluding stone
or gravel. Areas within prescribed planting areas shall be mulched or regularly
spaded to eliminate weeds.
      5.   Any landscaped area shall be separated from an adjacent vehicular
area by a wall or curb at least six inches (6") higher than the adjacent
vehicular area.
      6.   No tree, shrub or landscaping which obstructs sight lines at
elevations between two feet (2') and six feet (6') above the roadways shall be
placed or permitted to remain on any corner lot within the triangle formed by
the street property lines and a line connecting them at a point twenty five
feet (25') from the intersection of the street property lines, or in the case
of rounded property corners, from the intersection of the street property lines
extended. The same sight-line limitations shall apply on any lot within ten
feet (10') from the intersection of a street property line with the edge of a
driveway or alley pavement or intersection of a driveway pavement. No tree,
shrub or landscaping shall be permitted to remain within such distances of such
intersection unless the foliage is maintained at sufficient height to prevent
obstruction of such sight line.
      7.   Required landscaping shall be regularly maintained in a neat, clean
and healthy condition. This shall include proper pruning, mowing of lawns,
weeding, removal of litter, fertilizing, replacement of plants (when necessary)
and the regular watering of all plants and grass.
   C.   Existing Topographic Patterns: Existing topographic patterns shall be
preserved except where modification will specifically contribute to increased
utility of the site and/or enhancement of the site.
§ 8-5-4 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues to exist.
   In addition to any penalty as hereinabove provided, the Village shall have
the right by injunction to enjoin the construction of any building or
development which violates the provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 6: CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
Section
   
8-6-1   Purpose
   
8-6-2   Scope
   
8-6-3   Definitions
   
8-6-4   Notice of Condominium Conversion
   
8-6-5   Property Report
   
8-6-6   Costs
   
8-6-7   Escrow Account
   
8-6-8   Warranty
   
8-6-9   Transfer of Control
   
8-6-10   Leave of Common Elements; Contracts
   
8-6-11   Parking Facilities
   
8-6-12   Advertising Restrictions
   
8-6-13   Discrimination Prohibited
   
8-6-14   Inspection of Records
   
8-6-15   Penalties
§ 8-6-1 PURPOSE.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees, having found and determined that a
considerable portion of the Village’s rental housing may be converted to
condominium status, that the prospective purchasers of these condominium units
are often without knowledge of the unique concepts of ownership involved, that
prospective buyers often have little factual basis presented to them on which
to make a decision and that, in order to provide buyers of condominium units
with basic information by which to make an intelligent housing choice and
promote the health, safety and welfare of the people, it is necessary and
appropriate that developers of condominium conversions prepare and distribute
information deemed relevant to the buyers of this type of residential property.
§ 8-6-2 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to residential conversion
condominiums, as that term is herein defined, within the Village.
§ 8-6-3 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
   ACT: The “Condominium Property Act”, as amended from time to time, of the
State of Illinois (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.).
   AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture,
corporation or any other entity or combination of entities who represents or
acts for or on behalf of a developer in selling or offering to sell any
condominium unit.
   BLANKET ENCUMBRANCE: A trust deed, mortgage, judgment or other lien or
encumbrance, including an option or contract to sell or a trust agreement
affecting a condominium, including any lien or other encumbrance arising as a
result of the imposition of any tax assessment by a public authority.
   BOARD OF MANAGERS or BOARD: Those owners elected to administer the property
at the time and in the manner provided by the declaration for the property and
vested with the rights, titles, powers, privileges, trusts, duties and
obligations imposed by the Act, declaration and bylaws and until such persons
are or must be elected shall mean the developer as herein defined.
   CLOSING OF THE SALE: The operation of transferring ownership of a
condominium unit to the purchaser from the developer through a deed of
conveyance or closing pursuant to articles of agreement or contract sale.
   COMMON ELEMENTS: All portions of the property except the units including
limited common elements unless otherwise specified.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT The sale of or a plan by a developer to sell residential
condominium units in connection with a conversion condominium.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT or UNIT: A separate three-dimensional area within the
condominium identified as such in the declaration and on the condominium plat
and shall include all improvements contained within such area except those
excluded in the declaration.
   CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM: A property improved with any building of more than
four (4) dwelling units which contains structures, excepting those newly
constructed and intended for condominium ownership which are, or have
previously been, wholly or partially occupied before recording of condominium
instruments by persons other than those who have contracted for the purchase of
condominiums.
   DECLARATION: The declaration required by the Illinois Condominium Property
Act (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.).
   DEPARTMENT: The Department of Community Development of the Village.
   DEVELOPER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture or
corporation or any other entity or combination of entities or any successors
thereto who undertake to develop a condominium project.
   DIRECTOR: The Director of Community Development of the Village.
   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS: A portion of the common elements so designated in
the declaration as being reserved for the use of a certain unit or units to the
exclusion of other units.
   OFFER: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement, publication or
announcement by a developer to any person or the general public to encourage a
person to purchase a condominium unit in a condominium project.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, trustee or other legal entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine,
singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Individual items of personalty including, without
limitation, refrigerator, range, garbage disposal, dishwasher, clothes washer,
clothes dryer, decorating and floor covering and the like.
   PLAT OF CONDOMINIUM: The plat of a duly licensed surveyor establishing and
describing condominium units and common elements.
   PROPERTY REPORT: The property report required in accordance with Section
8-6-5 of this Chapter.
   PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who visits the condominium project site for
the purpose of inspection for possible purchase or who requests a copy of the
property report.
   SITE: The lot or lots, tract or tracts of land described in the declaration
referred to in the Illinois Condominium Property Act (765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.).
   UNIT OWNER: The person or persons whose estates or interests, individually
or collectively, aggregate fee simple absolute ownership in a condominium unit.
   VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village.
§ 8-6-4 NOTICE OF CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION.
   A.   No less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the recording of
the declaration pursuant to the Illinois Condominium Property Act (765 ILCS
605/1 et seq.), the developer shall give written notice to each tenant of any
building being converted, of the intent to submit the property to the Act.
   Any developer of a conversion condominium must, upon issuing the notice of
intent, publish and deliver along with such notice of intent, a schedule of
selling prices for all units subject to the condominium instruments and offer
to sell such unit to the current tenants, except for units to be vacated for
rehabilitation subsequent to such notice of intent. Such offer shall not expire
earlier than thirty (30) days after receipt of the offer by the current tenant,
unless the tenant notifies the developer, in writing, of their election not to
purchase the condominium unit.
   B.   For a period of one hundred twenty (120) days following their receipt
of the notice of intent, any tenant who was a tenant on the date the notice of
intent was given shall be given the right to purchase their unit on
substantially the same terms and conditions as set forth in a duly executed
contract to purchase the unit, which contract shall conspicuously disclose the
existence of, and shall be subject to, the right of first refusal. The tenant
may exercise the right of first refusal by giving notice thereof to the
developer prior to the expiration of thirty (30) days from the giving of notice
by the developer to the tenant of the execution of the contract to purchase the
unit. The recording of the deed conveying the unit to the purchaser which
contains a statement to the effect that the tenant of the unit either waived or
failed to exercise the right of first refusal or had no right of first refusal
with respect to the unit shall extinguish any legal or equitable right or
interest to the possession or acquisition of the unit which the tenant may have
or claim with respect to the unit arising out of the right of first refusal
provided for in this Section. The foregoing provision shall not affect any
claim which the tenant may have against the landlord for damages arising out of
the right of first refusal provided for in this Section.
   C.   Any tenant who has a tenant as of the date of the notice of intent and
whose tenancy expires (other than for cause) prior to the expiration of one
hundred twenty (120) days from the date on which a copy of the notice of intent
was given to the tenant, shall have the right to extend their tenancy on the
same terms and conditions and for the same rental until the expiration of such
one hundred twenty (120) period, as appropriate, by the giving of written
notice thereof to the developer within thirty (30) days of the date upon which
a copy of the notice of intent was given to the tenant by the developer.
   Each tenant in a condominium conversion shall be informed by the developer
at the time the notice of intent is given whether their tenancy will be renewed
or terminated upon its expiration. If the tenancy is to be reviewed, the tenant
shall be informed of all charges, rental or otherwise, in connection with the
new tenancy and the length of the term of occupancy proposed in conjunction
with the new tenancy and the length of the term of occupancy proposed in
conjunction therewith.
   D.   Notwithstanding lease provisions to the contrary, the tenant’s premises
will not be shown to prospective purchasers without the tenant’s permission
until the expiration of the tenant’s option to purchase or ninety (90) days
prior to the end of the term of the tenant’s lease, whichever is later.
   E.   No lease or other agreement for the rental of property shall contain
any provision which authorizes the lessor to terminate the lease less than one
hundred twenty (120) days from notice of intent to convert as a part of any
operation or transaction incident to such a conversion. No such provision of
any lease or other agreement entered into after the effective day hereof shall
be given any force or effect, and such provisions are declared to be void.
   F.   Any notice provided for in this Section shall be deemed given when a
written notice is delivered in person or mailed, certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, to the party who is being given the notice.
§ 8-6-5 PROPERTY REPORT.
   A.   Property Report Required: It shall be unlawful for any developer to
offer for sale any condominium unit in a conversion condominium prior to making
available to the Village and prospective purchasers a property report which
shall contain the information specified herein:
      1.   Identification information, including:
         a.   Name and address of the developer (converter) and the owner
including all partners of a partnership, all officers and directors of a
corporation and the beneficial owner or owners of a trust;
         b.   Name of the building, address and number of units;
         c.   The principal attorneys, accountants, architect, engineer and
contractor of the development.
      2.   A description of the property and improvements including:
         a.   A map or plat showing the size and dimension of the condominium
project, together with all improvements, including recreational facilities and
proposed construction;
         b.   The share of ownership of each unit in the common element;
         c.   Description, nature and ownership of all property and facilities
on the site which are not a part of the condominium project;
         d.   Present and planned location of streets and roads including
driveways, access roads and parking areas on and contiguous to the site and the
nature of ownership thereof.
      3.   Proposed prices of the condominium units and a description of
personal property which may be included in the sale, stating whether new or
existing, including, without limitation, refrigerator, range, garbage disposal,
dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, decorating and floor covering and
any change in the sale’s price resulting from inclusion or exclusion of the
items in the purchase;
      4.   If the purchase of all or any of the condominium units is to be
financed by the developer or if financing has been arranged by the developer, a
statement indicating:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the person providing
such financing;
         b.   The interest rate to be charged;
         c.   The down payment which will be required;
         d.   The length of the mortgages being offered;
         e.   The service charge (points) which will be charged;
         f.   Any other fees which will be charged for considering an
application for a mortgage or providing financing including, but not limited
to, application fees and appraisal charges.
      5.   Drawings, architectural plans or other suitable documents setting
forth the necessary information for location, maintenance and repair of all
condominium facilities and equipment to the extent these documents exist. Such
items may be incorporated in the property report by reference and shall be
located at the sales office site or construction office site and shall be
turned over to the board of managers upon transfer of control by the developer;
      6.   Use permitted for individual condominium units by the declaration,
bylaws of the condominium association or organization and applicable zoning
provisions;
      7.   Statement of title, listing all restrictions of record and the
condition of title;
      8.   Method and timing of transfer of control over the condominium
project to the board of managers and the nature and extent of any interest
retained by the developer and the rights and obligations of unit purchasers
after closing and prior to election of the initial board of managers;
      9.   Projected initiation and completion dates for proposed construction,
renovation or conversion and a statement disclosing any penalty imposed by the
developer upon the contractor if said completion dates are not met and whether
any such penalty will inure to the benefit of a unit purchaser or whether
additional costs will be imposed on a buyer if such date is not met;
      10.   Statement disclosing the existence of the escrow account in which
developer is required to deposit any deposit or advance payment in the purchase
price pursuant to Section
8-6-7 of this Chapter and the terms and conditions governing the escrowed funds
and their release under said Section;
      11.   Statement of any pending litigation which would affect the
condominium or the developer’s ability to convey clear title;
      12.   Statement of the current real estate taxes, estimated charges
thereto as a result of the conversion and an estimate of such tax on each unit
and the formula used to derive same;
      13.   Copies of the sales documents and literature including, but not
limited to:
         a.   Deed or deeds of conveyance;
         b.   Bill of sale;
         c.   Trust deed, if applicable;
         d.   Mortgage and promissory note if financing is through the
developer or such documents as are otherwise available to the developer;
         e.   Proposed real estate sales contract.
      14.   Summary of the operating expenses of the buildings as a rental
project for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the filing of the
declaration;
      15.   Copies of the following documents, numbered and indexed in such a
manner as the developer may select, so as to permit ready reference thereto:
         a.   The declaration and plat;
         b.   The articles of incorporation or charter of the condominium
association;
         c.   The proposed bylaws and regulations of the condominium
association;
         d.   Coverage and amounts of condominium insurance policies, which
coverage shall be equal to or greater than the appraised value of the project
after conversion, and a copy of the appraisal report utilized in making such
determination.
      16.   A statement of management and expected operation costs of
condominium, including:
         a.   Name of management agent, if any, and the services the agent will
perform;
         b.   Length of term of any management contract and charges and
circumstances, if any, under which the charges may be increased;
         c.   The conditions, if any, under which the contract may be cancelled
or terminated;
         d.   Statement disclosing any relationship between the developer and
the management firm and its respective corporate officers and controlling
interests.
      17.   Copy of annual estimated budgets for the condominium project
commencing with the filing of the declaration up to and including the expected
date that control of the project will pass to the board of managers which shall
include estimated monthly payments to be prorated to each unit. The budget
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Costs included in monthly assessment:
            (1)   Utilities, including heating, fuel, water and sewer not
separately metered;
            (2)   Scavenger service;
            (3)   Janitorial service;
            (4)   Ground and building maintenance;
            (5)   Security;
            (6)   Supplies;
            (7)   Maintenance and operation of recreational facilities;
            (8)   Building and other insurance;
            (9)   Elevator maintenance;
            (10)   Sidewalks and street maintenance (including driveways,
access roads and parking areas) and snow removal services therefor;
            (11)   Other operating costs, if any;
            (12)   Management services including management fees, legal,
accounting and/or bookkeeping services;
            (13)   Reserves, including reserves for improvements, unexpected
repair work and replacement and upkeep of common elements and facilities
including the basis upon which the reserves are calculated and the manner in
which such reserves may be expended by the developer, if at all, prior to
transferring ownership to the board of managers.
            If no provisions for reserves are included in the estimated common
expenses, the following statement in type size and style equal to at least ten
(10) point bold type shall be set forth:
NO RESERVE FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE COSTS INCLUDED IN THE ESTIMATED COMMON EXPENSES.
IT MAY, THEREFORE, BE NECESSARY FOR UNIT OWNERS TO PAY A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO
PAY FOR SUCH COSTS IF THEY OCCUR.
         b.   Costs not included in monthly assessment:
            (1)   Any items listed in Subsection a above not included in same;
            (2)   Utilities, including fuel for heat and hot water,
electricity, water and sewer which are separately metered.
      18.   Alternative provisions, if any, if an insufficient number of units
are sold to cover the proposed operations and maintenance budget;
      19.   A report from a qualified, licensed, certified structural engineer
or registered architect, not associated with the developer, stating their
opinions concerning the condition and the rated life and expected useful life
of the roof, foundation, external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing and structural elements and all other common facilities, together with
an estimate of repair and replacement costs, at current market prices to put
said items in proper working order, and which shall indicate what the costs per
category of unit would be if the unit owners were assessed for the estimated
cost. This report shall include the approximate dates of installation of the
facilities listed above and the dates of major repairs to such facilities. The
license or registration number of said engineer or architect shall be included
in the report. A copy of this report shall be submitted to the Village;
      20.   Explanation of the buyers’ cancellation rights and the procedures
for cancellation;
      21.   If there are any restrictions upon the free sale, transfer
conveyance, encumbrance or leasing of a unit, then a statement in bold-face
type or capital letters in substantially the following form shall be included:
THE SALE, LEASE OR TRANSFER OF YOUR UNIT IS RESTRICTED OR CONTROLLED.
Immediately following this statement, there shall appear a reference to the
document, articles, paragraphs or pages in the disclosure materials where the
restrictions or controls are set forth or described in detail;
      22.   A statement indicating what, if any, warranties apply to the
condominium unit, common elements and personal property of the condominium
project and all warranties specifically excluded;
      23.   Each property report shall contain on the front page the following
warning in capital letters, in a type size and style equal to at least ten (10)
point bold type:
VILLAGE OF ELK GROVE VILLAGE LAW SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITS ANY REPRESENTATION TO
THE EFFECT THAT THE VILLAGE HAS PASSED UPON THE MERITS OF OR GIVEN APPROVAL TO
MAKE OR CAUSE TO BE MADE TO ANY PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER ANY REPRESENTATIONS WHICH
DIFFER FROM THE STATEMENTS IN THIS PROPERTY REPORT. ORAL REPRESENTATIONS CANNOT
BE RELIED UPON AS CORRECTLY STATING THE REPRESENTATIONS OF THE DEVELOPER AND
ARE NOT BINDING ON THE DEVELOPER. REFER TO THE PROPERTY REPORT FOR CORRECT
REPRESENTATIONS.
      24.   A statement of whether, and under what circumstances, the unit
owners are required to be a member of, support or participate financially in
recreational facilities such as, but not limited, to health clubs, exercise
rooms, swimming pools, party rooms and golf putting greens. If any such
facility is not part of the common elements, the following warning shall be
included in capital letters in a type size and style equal to at least ten (10)
point type:
“THE (HERE NAME FACILITIES) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE COMMON ELEMENTS. THESE
FACILITIES ARE AVAILABLE TO UNIT OWNER FOR (HERE DESCRIBE MONTHLY CHARGE AND
INITIATION FEE). UNIT OWNERS ARE/ARE NOT (AS APPLICABLE) REQUIRED TO
PARTICIPATE FINANCIALLY.”
      25.   A statement as to the existence of the Village Condominium
Conversion Ordinance and availability of a copy of same from the Village
Clerk’s Office;
      26.   The person or persons having a majority beneficial or legal
interest in the ownership of the condominium project as of the date of the
property report shall sign the property report and affirm that it and any
supplements, modifications and amendments are true, full, complete and correct.
   B.   Amendments to Reports: The developer shall amend the property report
from time to time when any material changes occur in any matter contained in
such reports. Amendments shall be made within thirty (30) days after such
change occurs or the developer has reason to know of such change.
   Amendments shall be sent to the Village Department of Community Development
prior to distribution of the amendments to prospective purchasers and prior
purchasers. Amendments shall also be attached to reports subsequently
distributed to prospective purchasers and shall be immediately distributed to
all purchasers of condominium units.
   C.   Retention of Documents: The board of managers shall keep a copy of the
latest property report for seven (7) years following the date of the property
report’s initial distribution. Upon reasonable notice, the property report
shall be made available for inspection by any prospective purchaser of a unit
from a unit owner.
§ 8-6-6 COSTS.
   A.   Payment of Common Expenses Exceeding Estimate: The developer will be
held financially responsible for any intentional misrepresentations in their
budget analysis as required by Subsection
8-6-5A of this Chapter. For the purposes of this Chapter, intentional
misrepresentation shall mean the underestimate of such total operating budget
by the developer by at least twenty percent (20%). The developer shall pay all
operating expenses for any year which exceed their estimates for that year by
twenty percent (20%).
   B.   Fees for Unsold Units: The developer shall be required to pay the
maintenance, service, assessment and/or management fees for each unsold unit
through the closing date of the sale of the unit. The fees for each such unsold
unit shall be the same as would be attributed to a like sold unit.
§ 8-6-7 ESCROW ACCOUNT.
   The developer shall establish an escrow with a bank or trust company having
trust powers, an attorney who is a member of the Illinois Bar or title company
authorized to do business in Illinois with whom shall be deposited any deposit,
payment or advance in payment of the purchase price other than payment for
extra work ordered in writing. The conditions and release of escrowed funds
shall conform to the following.
   A.   If a purchaser properly terminates the contract of purchase, the
escrowed funds shall be paid to them free of the cost of escrow.
   B.   Prior to the closing of sale, no funds shall be paid to the developer
from escrowed funds, except upon a default by the purchaser.
   C.   The developer shall cause funds to be placed in a separate account
designated for this purpose and shall bear interest of at least five percent
(5%) per year, all such interest to be credited to the purchaser on the
purchase price of the unit.
   D.   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to any payment received
on account for the purchase of a completed condominium unit under articles of
agreement for deed, installment agreement for deed or lease with option to
purchase if the agreement provides for conveyance of title more than one year
after the date of execution of the agreement.
   E.   Escrowed funds shall not be subject to the attachment by the creditors
of any party to the escrow or by the holder of a lien against any portion of
the property.
   F.   The cost of such escrow shall be borne by the developer.
§ 8-6-8 WARRANTY.
   The developer shall warrant that all major repairs to the roof, foundation,
external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and structural
elements shall be performed at the expense of the developer up to the date
control of the condominium project passes to the board of managers. The
warranty shall include any repairs and expenses actually incurred, the payment
of which shall not be taken from any reserves established as set forth herein
and shall further include any repairs which the developer, in the exercise of
sound discretion, should have made prior to the transfer of control. The
warranty shall not include the cost of normal, routine maintenance, which
expense is included in the regular monthly assessment period. The warranty
shall extend for an additional six (6) month period after such transfer date
except for any repairs caused by the failure of the board of managers to
provide adequate or necessary maintenance. In addition thereto, any sale
agreement for the sale of a condominium unit under the provisions of this
Chapter shall contain a warranty that the unit is in good condition, free from
any latent or patent defects and that the developer shall repair or replace any
defect in said unit at the developer’s sole cost promptly upon being notified
of such defect, in writing, by the purchaser; provided, however, that such
notice of defect must be delivered to the developer within one year from
closing of the sale of the condominium unit; and further provided, that such
warranty may be waived by any unit purchaser in consideration of a reduction in
the purchase price.
§ 8-6-9 TRANSFER OF CONTROL.
   Every declaration recorded pursuant to the Illinois Condominium Property Act
(765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.) shall provide that when seventy five percent (75%) of
the condominium units are sold or no later than three (3) years after the
closing on the sale of the first unit, the control over the condominium project
shall be transferred to the board of managers.
§ 8-6-10 LEAVE OF COMMON ELEMENTS; CONTRACTS.
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by the board of managers, no lease of common
elements and no service or management contract relating to the condominium
shall be valid longer than one year after the board of managers assumes control
of the condominium, and no developer shall enter into such a lease for any
longer period.
   B.   The developer may not require nor, except as established by the board
of managers following assumption of control by unit purchasers, may the
condominium bylaws require that a unit owner be a member of or participate in
recreational or similar facilities which are not owned in fee simple by the
unit owners or be an association in which they are members, individually or
through the board of managers.
§ 8-6-11 PARKING FACILITIES.
   No developer shall record a declaration or plat unless parking facilities
are located on or within the condominium property and are (a) included in the
common elements, or (b) are divided as individual parking spaces among and
designated as being a part of the condominium project. At least two (2) spaces
shall be provided for each unit in the project, except for those buildings
constructed prior to December 19, 1972, in which case, one and one-half (1 1/2)
spaces for each unit will be permitted or where a variation by ordinance has
previously been granted by the Village permitting less parking.
§ 8-6-12 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   False Advertising Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
advertise, sell or offer for sale any condominium unit by employing any false
or misleading statement of a material fact or to omit any material fact
required to be stated or necessary to make the statements made not misleading.
   B.   Restrictions on Advertising and Sale: A developer shall not advertise
the sale of or enter into an agreement or contract for the sale of any
condominium unit unless:
      1.   A property report is available for distribution to prospective
purchasers;
      2.   Copies of all documents that were filed or required to be filed in
connection with the condominium project with the registrar of titles or
recorder of deeds of the county in which the property is located are available
to prospective purchasers;
      3.   A copy of the property report and any amendments, modifications and
supplements thereto have been given to the prospective purchaser upon their
visit to the site or upon their request for information;
      4.   The prospective purchaser has been given an opportunity to read the
property report;
      5.   A receipt signed by the prospective purchaser has been received by
the developer or agent acknowledging that the prospective purchaser has
received and has had an opportunity to review the property report. Such
receipts are to be kept on file in the possession of the developer for a period
of three (3) years from the date of signature of the prospective purchaser and
such receipts are subject to the inspection by the Department at any reasonable
time;
      6.   The property report and any amendments and supplements thereto are
available for inspection by the public, and copies of same have been delivered
to the Department.
§ 8-6-13 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be denied the right to purchase or lease a unit because of
race, religion, sex, marital status or national origin.
§ 8-6-14 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to allow unit owners to inspect
the financial books and records of the condominium project within three (3)
business days of the time written request for examination of the records is
received by the person or entity having possession of the records.
§ 8-6-15 PENALTIES.
   Any person guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation continues or is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   In addition to any penalty which may be imposed herein, the Village may
initiate injunctive relief, including the issuance of temporary restraining
orders and preliminary injunctions, in the Third Municipal District of the
Circuit Court of Cook County to abate any violation of this Chapter, the
continuation of which would be injurious to the welfare of the residents or
which would frustrate or defeat the intent of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 7: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
   
8-7-1   Supervision
   
8-7-2   Construction Requirements
   
8-7-3   Repairs and Defects
   
8-7-4   Barricades
   
8-7-5   Street and Sidewalk Openings
   
8-7-6   Trucks on Public Ways
   
8-7-7   Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
8-7-8   Deposits on Streets and Sidewalks
   
8-7-9   Construction of Facilities in Rights-of-Way
   
8-7-9-1   Purpose and Scope
   
8-7-9-2   Definitions
   
8-7-9-3   Annual Registration Required
   
8-7-9-4   Permit Required; Applications and Fees
   
8-7-9-5   Action on Permit Applications
   
8-7-9-6   Effect of Permit
   
8-7-9-7   Revised Permit Drawings
   
8-7-9-8   Insurance
   
8-7-9-9   Indemnification
   
8-7-9-10   Security
   
8-7-9-11   Permit Suspension and Revocation
   
8-7-9-12   Change of Ownership or Owner’s Identity or Legal Status
   
8-7-9-13   General Construction Standards
   
8-7-9-14   Traffic Control
   
8-7-9-15   Location of Facilities
   
8-7-9-16   Construction Methods and Materials
   
8-7-9-17   Vegetation Control
   
8-7-9-18   Removal, Relocation or Modifications of Utility Facilities
   
8-7-9-19   Cleanup and Restoration
   
8-7-9-20   Maintenance and Emergency Maintenance
   
8-7-9-21   Variances
   
8-7-9-22   Penalties
   
8-7-9-23   Enforcement
   
8-7-10   Penalties for Chapter
Article A. Driveways
   
8-7A-1   Permit Requirements
   
8-7A-2   Grade Surface
   
8-7A-3   Construction Specifications
   
8-7A-4   Repairs and Maintenance
   
8-7A-5   Replacement
   
8-7A-6   Penalties
Article B. Excavations
   
8-7B-1   Permit Requirements
   
8-7B-2   Manner of Excavating
   
8-7B-3   Barricades and Lights
   
8-7B-4   Inspections
   
8-7B-5   Exemptions from Provisions
   
8-7B-6   Penalties
Article C. Parking Areas and Parking Area Driveways; Public Invited Roads,
Access Roads and Ways
   
8-7C-1   Definitions
   
8-7C-2   Permit Required
   
8-7C-3   Parking Area Specifications
   
8-7C-4   Maintenance Requirements
   
8-7C-5   Notification and Compliance
   
8-7C-6   Appeals and Variations
   
8-7C-7   Penalties
§ 8-7-1 SUPERVISION.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under
the supervision of the Director of Community Development or their authorized
representative. They shall have supervision overall work thereon and the
cleaning thereof and shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance
provisions relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances) and is
hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances.
§ 8-7-2 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Permits Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the
same, without having first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permits shall be made to the Director of Community Development and shall state
the location of the intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof and the
person who is to do the actual construction work.
   B.   Bond and Insurance:
      1.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the Director of Community
Development conditioned to indemnify the Village from any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
      2.   Insurance: Each applicant shall further provide evidence to the
Village of insurance; said certificate of insurance to name the Village of Elk
Grove Village as an additional party insured and be sufficient to cover all
contract work to be performed by the general contractor and any subcontractor
and shall be in the following amounts:
         a.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X”, “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than: two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person; two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one (1) accident; and two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
for all other types of liability;
         b.   Comprehensive automobile liability in the amount of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury each occurrence and three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury aggregate and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage for each occurrence;
         c.   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits;
         d.   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per employee and per accident; and
         e.   Excess umbrella liability in the amount of five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) to cover claims exceeding the above principal coverages.
   C.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in
conformity with the specifications laid down by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
§ 8-7-3 REPAIRS AND DEFECTS.
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the Village or the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the Director of Public Works or their
authorized representative.
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every Village employee becoming
cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction
thereof, to report the same to the Director of Public Works or their authorized
representative as soon as possible.
§ 8-7-4 BARRICADES.
   A.   Barricades Required:
      1.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place or making an excavation in the same (see Article B of this
Chapter) shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or
vehicle by reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by suitable
lights at nighttime.
      2.   Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury, and any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any
such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open
by proper barricades and lights.
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
§ 8-7-5 STREET AND SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any
opening or stairway in any public street or alley or sidewalk or other public
place without a permit from the Director of Community Development.
   B.   Openings to Be Guarded: All such lawfully maintained openings shall be
guarded by a suitable strong cover or railing to the approval of the Director
of Community Development or their authorized representative.
§ 8-7-6 TRUCKS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   No vehicle shall cross over or upon any public right-of-way improved with
curb and gutter or sidewalk except on established driveways unless the owner
and driver of said vehicle shall have first obtained from the Department of
Community Development of the Village a permit to so do. No such permit shall be
issued unless the Department of Community Development is satisfied that
appropriate precautions are to be taken to safeguard public improvements from
injury and/or damage.
Cross-reference:
   See also Subsection
6-3-2B and Sections
6-3-3 and
6-4-6 of this Code
§ 8-7-7 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Injury to Pavements: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle upon,
walk upon or walk an animal upon or injure any newly laid street or alley
pavement while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or to
knowingly injure any street, sidewalk or alley pavement.
   B.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any pavement, parkway, sidewalk or other public way
or place an obstacle thereon, except as may be specifically authorized by
ordinance or the Director of Community Development. Nonjagged rocks or boulders
less than twenty-four inches by twenty-four inches (24" x 24") in size,
standing no higher than twenty-four inches (24") above the surrounding ground
elevation and at least twenty-four inches (24") behind the back of the curb or
roadway shoulder for lawn protection purposes shall be considered authorized
under this Section.
   C.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
   D.   Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street
or alley.
§ 8-7-8 DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   A.   Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or any glass
or other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal or property.
Aggregate or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to
delivery for use; provided, that such deposit does not reduce the usable width
of the street or roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'), and
provided, that such material other than material used in actual building
construction shall not be permitted to remain in such street for more than
three (3) hours. Any such material shall be guarded by barricades and lights if
the same remains upon a street after nighttime.
   B.   Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material or
any glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'), and provided, that no such article
shall remain for more than one-half (1/2) hour.
§ 8-7-9 CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
§ 8-7-9-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section
8-7-9 is to establish policies and procedures for constructing facilities on
rights-of-way within the Village’s jurisdiction, which will provide public
benefit consistent with the preservation of the integrity, safe usage and
visual qualities of the Village rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this Section
8-7-9, the Village intends to exercise its authority over the rights-of-way in
the Village and, in particular, the use of the public ways and property by
utilities, by establishing uniform standards to address issues presented by
utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased storm water runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the Village’s residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject to this Section: This Section
8-7-9 applies to all facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within the rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility
lawfully established prior to the November 23, 2007 may continue to be
maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and
located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise,
license or similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the Village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this Section
8-7-9.
   E.   Effect of Franchises, Licenses or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this Section
8-7-9 and the provisions of any franchise, license or similar agreement between
the Village and any telecommunications provider, the provisions of such
franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the
term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts with Other Sections: This Section
8-7-9 supersedes all sections or parts of sections adopted prior hereto that
are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts with State and Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
Section
8-7-9, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this Section
8-7-9 to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this Section
8-7-9 and may vary the standards, conditions and requirements expressed in this
Section
8-7-9 when the Village so determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to
limit the ability of the Village to regulate its rights of way for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
§ 8-7-9-2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Section
8-7-9 and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and terms
listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section. Any term not
defined in this Section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Illinois
Administrative Code Section 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
   ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
   APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this Section
8-7-9.
   BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope and a clear run out area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO “Roadside Design
Guide”.
   COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE: The municipal code of the Village of Elk Grove Village.
   CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: The Village Director of Community
Development or their designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this Section
8-7-9, any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse
effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may
include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting;
placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or
structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and
shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does
not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   ELECTRIC UTILITY DESIGN STANDARDS MANUAL: Those standards that were adopted
by the Village Board on June 18, 2024, as amended, and are publicly available
for review at the Department of Community Development Office.
   EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, concrete pads, pedestals, poles,
conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this
Section
8-7-9. For purposes of this Section
8-7-9, the term “facility” shall not include any facility owned or operated by
the Village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Director of Community Development to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. “Highway” includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
   IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
   JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
   OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
Sections
8-7-9-4 and
8-7-9-5 of this Chapter.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal slurry.
   PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the Village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the Village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the Village. “Right-of-way” or “rights-of-way” shall not include
any real or personal Village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include Village buildings, fixtures
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to Section
8-7-9-10 of this Chapter.
   SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. “Private line” means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
“Telecommunications” shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. “Telecommunications”
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. “Telecommunications” shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 USC 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the Village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR 76.1500 and following), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any “facility” as
defined in this Section.
   VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in Section 21-201(v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   VILLAGE: The Village of Elk Grove Village.
   WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
§ 8-7-9-3 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the Village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Community Development, providing
the utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and email addresses,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a twenty-four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in Subsection
8-7-2B of this Chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
§ 8-7-9-4 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this Section
8-7-9) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any
Village right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility; 2) adds a
new facility; 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this Section
8-7-9); or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Director of Community Development
and obtaining a permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided
in this Section
8-7-9. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of the
right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
Section
8-7-9 shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and or filed
electronically with the Department of Community Development. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential” by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility’s name and address and telephone;
      2.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone numbers, email address and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of
all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to
the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the “Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices”, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this Section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in Section
8-7-9-8 of this Chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in Section
8-7-9-10 of this Chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
Section
8-7-9 (see Section
8-7-9-21 of this Chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements for Specific Types of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of Subsection C of this Section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any “certificate of public
convenience and necessity” or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
division of water pollution control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago or other local or state entities with jurisdiction,
have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant’s Duty to Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Fees:
      1.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this Section shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00). No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity
utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance
fee, or providing a franchise payment, pursuant to the Electricity
Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law, being 35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.
      2.   Utility Fees: All permits pursuant to this Section shall be subject
to the fees set forth in the Electric Utility Design Standards Manual
§ 8-7-9-5 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   A.   Village Review of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
Community Development within a reasonable time after filing. If the application
does not conform to the requirements of this and/or other applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Community
Development shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the Director of Community Development is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this Section
8-7-9 and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the
Director of Community Development shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development, that
the construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance
with the requirements of this Section
8-7-9.
   B.   Additional Village Review of Applications of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village that it intends to
commence work governed by this Section
8-7-9 for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. Such
notice shall consist of plans, specifications and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not
less than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of work requiring
excavation. The Director of Community Development shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the Director of Community Development fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or b) twenty-five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this Section
8-7-9.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to Section
8-7-9-4 of this Chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
Village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of Subsection A of this
Section.
   C.   Additional Village Review of Applications of Holders of State
Authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, being 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq., shall be
deemed granted forty-five (45) days after submission to the Village, unless
otherwise acted upon by the Village, provided the holder has complied with
applicable Village codes, ordinances and regulations.
§ 8-7-9-6 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this Section
8-7-9 on Village rights-of-way, and does not create a property right or grant
authority to the permittee to impinge upon the rights of others who may have an
interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this Chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction has actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this Chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the Village with such Village
representatives in attendance as the Village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance with All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
Village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the Village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
§ 8-7-9-7 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the Village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this Section
8-7-9, it shall be treated as a request for variance in accordance with Section
8-7-9-21 of this Chapter. If the Village denies the request for a variance,
then the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or
modify the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised
drawings or plans therefor.
§ 8-7-9-8 INSURANCE.
   A.   Required Coverages and Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the Village, and its Elected and Appointed Officers, officials,
agents and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
Subsections A1 and A2 of this Section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X”, “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers’ compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
      Excess umbrella liability in the amount of five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) to cover claims exceeding the above principal coverages.
      If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors
and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this Section.
   B.   Excess or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this Section may
be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this Section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance and Renewal of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this Section shall contain the following endorsement:
   It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by
the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of
a written notice addressed to the Director of Community Development of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.
   Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this Section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by Subsection A of this
Section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under Subsection A of this Section, or the requirements of Subsections
B, C and D of this Section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
Subsection A of this Section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private
self-insurer” under the Workers’ Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
   F.   Effect of Insurance and Self-insurance on Utility’s Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this Section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this Section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better
and of a class size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
§ 8-7-9-9 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this Section
8-7-9 or by a franchise, license or similar agreement; provided, however, that
the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries,
claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or
resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this Section
8-7-9 by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
§ 8-7-9-10 SECURITY.
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this Section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this Section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this Section
8-7-9;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the Village occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued pursuant to this
Section
8-7-9; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims, costs
or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this Section
8-7-9 including, without limitation, any damage to public property or
restoration work the permittee is required by this Section
8-7-9 to perform that the Village must perform itself or have completed as a
consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or complete, and all
other payments due the Village from the permittee pursuant to this Section
8-7-9 or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the Village in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this Subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the Village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the Village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Community Development, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the Village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of
Community Development may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the
permittee to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each
phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for
phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this Subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days’ advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this Subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the Village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this Section that the Village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
Subsection C of this Section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the Village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in Subsection C of this Section.
   G.   Closing and Return of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
Section
8-7-9 or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village, whether
reserved by this Section
8-7-9 or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of
right with respect to said security fund shall affect any other right the
Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Village shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated.
§ 8-7-9-11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   A.   Village Right to Revoke Permit: The Village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this Section
8-7-9 for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this Section
8-7-9;
      3.   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice of Revocation or Suspension: The Village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
Section
8-7-9 stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this Section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives upon Receipt of Notice of Revocation or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the Village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the Village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the Village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the Village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the Village providing written proof of such removal to
the Village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
   The Village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this Subsection.
   D.   Stop-Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the Village may issue a stop-work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within Subsection A of
this Section.
   E.   Failure or Refusal of the Permittee to Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of Subsection C of this Section, the Village or
its designee may, at the option of the Village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days’
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the Village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the Village for all costs of removal.
§ 8-7-9-12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   A.   Notification of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this Section
8-7-9, with respect to the work and facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the Village’s right-
of-way.
   C.   Insurance and Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
§ 8-7-9-13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   A.   Standards and Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
including, without limitation, the Electric Utility Design Standards Manual and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”;
      2.   “Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions”;
      3.   “Highway Design Manual”;
      4.   “Highway Standards Manual”;
      5.   “Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items”;
      6.   “Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (92 Ill. Adm.
Code Section 545);
      7.   “Flagger’s Handbook”; and
      8.   “Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations”.
   B.   Interpretation of Municipal Standards and Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
Section
8-7-9, the Director of Community Development shall determine, in the exercise
of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall
be final. If requested, the Director of Community Development shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future.
§ 8-7-9-14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s most current edition of the “Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices and Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference with Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
Section
8-7-9-20 of this Chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the Village.
§ 8-7-9-15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this Subsection.
      1.   No Interference with Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Director of Community Development determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the Village’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the
operation or maintenance of any of the Village’s utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference and Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference with Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations on Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets available to the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways: If permitted pursuant to
Subsection F of this Section:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') behind the face of the curb,
where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') outside the outer
shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') from and parallel to the right-
of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') from the right-of-way line and any above grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') of the right-of-way line or
as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways: If permitted pursuant to Subsection F of
this Section:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of Village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, “construction of electric power and communication lines” (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') of the right-of-way line
of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities to Be Located Within Particular Rights-of-Way: The Village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Location of Electric Lines:
   No permanent or temporary overhead distribution lines shall be installed;
provided, however, new permanent or temporary overhead electric lines may be
installed on poles that were in existence on June 18, 2024. All permanent and
temporary electric lines shall be installed at the expense of the customer or
the property owner, as the case may be and, unless authorized by the preceding
sentence, shall be installed below ground.
   G.   Facility Attachments to Bridges or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
§ 8-7-9-16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   A.   Standards and Requirements for Particular Types of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring or Jacking:
         a.   Pits and Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Community Development from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty-eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty-eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings with Diameters Greater than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following pipe,
and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of the
following pipe by more than one inch (1").
         d.   Borings with Diameters Six Inches or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”.
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the Director of Community Development.
         b.   Open Trench and Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the “Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices”. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled away.
         c.   Drip Line of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction”. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the completion date of
construction of a facility, the utility shall be responsible to remove and
restore any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the
facility. If so ordered by the Director of Community Development, the utility,
at its expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of
the installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Director of Community Development.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this Subsection is
permitted under Section
8-7-9-21 of this Chapter, the following requirements shall apply.
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, or
other material as approved by the Director of Community Development.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
Village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') of the right-of-way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be located
in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of the
highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Electric lines                          In accordance with the Electric Utility
                                        Design Standards Manual
Communication, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (as determined by
lines                                   Village)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches
Water line                              66 inches
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
 
   B.   Standards and Requirements for Particular Types of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled
“rules for construction of electric power and communications lines”, and the
National Electrical Safety Code, as amended from time to time.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Where permitted by this Section
8-7-9, overhead power or communication facilities shall use single pole
construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles shall be used.
Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the installation so guys
and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible
alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards for maximum
visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of “moles”, “whip augers” or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other than Electric Power or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of “moles”, “whip augers” or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution and Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT’s “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction”, most current edition, and all other applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines or
Drainage Lines: Water
lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and drainage lines within
rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current “Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois”.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') in width beyond
the appurtenance in all directions. With the approval of the Director of
Community Development, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in
place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage on Right-of-Way: No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Director of Community
Development. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior
to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the Village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Community
Development when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the hours of construction
are seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o’clock (7:00) P.M. Monday through
Friday.
   E.   Location of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty-eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/
1 et seq.).
§ 8-7-9-17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance with State Laws and Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the Village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing the same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this Section
8-7-9.
      1.   Application for Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers, with supervision by a certified arborist, who are experienced in
accepted tree pruning practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an
expiration date in the interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously
accomplished.
      2.   Damage to Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The Village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees or Trees of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following Subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the Village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Community Development that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
§ 8-7-9-18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
Village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation
of any Village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or
upon, the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the Village, any utility that owns, controls or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this Section
8-7-9; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal or Relocation of Facilities: The Village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the Village, as the Village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the Village, the utility shall notify the Village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the Village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Director of
Community Development determines that such removal will be in the best interest
of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the Village does
not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving
notice of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person.
§ 8-7-9-19 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the
rights-of-way or public utility and drainage easements are disturbed, damaged
or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the utility, all to the
satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of entrances and side
roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and
methods approved by the Director of Community Development. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this Section may be extended by the
Director of Community Development for good cause shown.
§ 8-7-9-20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the Village and at the utility’s expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Community Development or their duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing them as to what steps have been taken for protection of
the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs.
If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement
of traffic, the Village Police and Fire Departments shall be notified
immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty-eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair.
§ 8-7-9-21 VARIANCES.
   A.   Request for Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this Section
8-7-9 must do so in writing to the Director of Community Development as a part
of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of this
Section
8-7-9 from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should
be granted.
   B.   Authority to Grant Variances: The Director of Community Development
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
Section
8-7-9 identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions for Granting of Variance: The Director of Community
Development may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the
variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the
provision from which a variance is requested are impracticable in relation to
the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions for Granting of a Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Community Development may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this Section but which carry
out the purposes of this Section
8-7-9.
   E.   Right to Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director
of Community Development under the provisions of this Section
8-7-9 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Manager. The application
for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk within thirty
(30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or determination.
The Village Manager shall commence their consideration of the appeal within
thirty (30) days after the filing of the appeal.
§ 8-7-9-22 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this Section
8-7-9 shall be subject to a fine not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. There
may be times when the Village will incur delay or other costs, including third-
party claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under
its permit and this Section
8-7-9. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
§ 8-7-9-23 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this Section
8-7-9 shall be construed as limiting any additional or further remedies that
the Village may have for enforcement of this Section
8-7-9.
§ 8-7-10 PENALTIES FOR CHAPTER.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter where no other
penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
**** ARTICLE A. DRIVEWAYS ****
§ 8-7A-1 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles
across any sidewalk in the Village without having first obtained a permit
therefor.
   B.   Application for Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Director of Community Development and shall be accompanied by the required
fee.
§ 8-7A-2 GRADE SURFACE.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish to any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous to
pedestrians or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
§ 8-7A-3 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
following:
   A.   Driveways and Aprons in Residential Areas:
      1.   Driveway Materials: Driveways for residential property shall be
constructed of one of the following materials: portland cement concrete,
bituminous concrete or paving stones (approved by the Director of Community
Development).
      2.   Aprons: Aprons, the area between the sidewalk and curb, shall be
constructed of either portland cement concrete or paving stones. Paving stones
shall not be placed on or over the public sidewalk. The public sidewalk must be
constructed with portland cement concrete. The width of the driveway apron
(measured at the public sidewalk) shall not exceed the width of the driveway.
      3.   Construction Requirements:
         a.   Construction of portland cement concrete shall have a thickness
of not less than five inches (5") of 6-bag mix concrete and contain a #10 wire
mesh.
         b.   Construction of bituminous concrete driveways shall consist of a
minimum two inch (2") thick bituminous concrete surface course constructed over
a seven inch (7") base of crushed stone or gravel.
         c.   Construction of paving stones shall follow the manufacturer’s
installation specifications and be approved by the Director of Community
Development. Only paving stones designed for vehicular loading shall be allowed
for driveway and apron use. Adequate edge restraint shall be provided along the
perimeter of all paving in the form of integral curb and gutter, concrete curb,
edge strip or existing structures deemed appropriate by the Director of
Community Development.
         The owner of the property must execute a hold harmless agreement with
the Village prior
to the installation of paving stones in the apron or easement areas.
      4.   Width:
         a.   Lots with structures having a single car attached garage door
opening shall have a maximum allowable driveway width of twenty feet (20').
         b.   Lots with structures having a single car attached garage door
opening shall have a maximum allowable apron width of twenty-six feet (26')
measured at the curb.
         c.   Lots with structures having a two (2) or three (3) car attached
garage door opening shall have a maximum allowable driveway width of thirty
feet (30').
         d.   Lots with structures having a two (2) or three (3) car attached
garage door opening shall have a maximum allowable apron width of thirty-six
feet (36') measured at the curb.
         e.   All aprons shall have a minimum two foot (2') and maximum three
foot (3') flare at the curb on each side of the driveway extending from the
property line.
         f.   The apron flare shall not extend over the side property line
without the approval of the neighboring property owner and Director of
Community Development.
      5.   Subgrade: The subgrade shall be tamped or rolled until thoroughly
compacted to ninety-five percent (95%) of optimum and shall be constructed true
to grade. The apron shall be laid upon a base of granular material a minimum of
two inches (2") in thickness. Fills, where required, must be compacted solidly.
Materials for fills shall be gravel or crushed stone and placed and tamped in
six inch (6") layers. The top of all fills shall extend at least one foot (1')
beyond the edge of the walk. Subgrade in cut shall be prepared sufficiently
wide to accommodate the forms. Side slopes shall slope one foot (1') vertical
to three foot (3') horizontal to meet existing ground surface.
      6.   Ground Coverage: Paved surfaces within the front yard areas of
residentially zoned districts shall not exceed fifty percent (50%). “Front yard
area” shall be defined as that portion of the yard extending the full width of
the lot and measured between the front lot line and the building line, or the
front and side lot lines and the building lines for corner lots.
   B.   Driveways and Aprons in Industrial and Commercial Areas:
      1.   Driveway Materials and Width: Driveways shall be constructed of
either portland cement concrete or bituminous concrete. The width of the
driveway beginning at the building setback line shall be increased or decreased
along a straight line to the width of the driveway apron at the property line.
      2.   Aprons:
         a.   Materials Procedure:
            (1)   Aprons (that area between the property line and curbing)
shall be constructed of portland cement concrete.
            (2)   All aprons shall be eight inches (8") thick and the thickness
of the gravel or crushed stone base shall be eight inches (8") and tapped down.
            (3)   The concrete shall be a 6-bag mixture.
            (4)   The apron shall contain #6 mesh wire.
            (5)   Aprons shall be poured in eight inch (8") forms from the
property line to the curb.
         b.   Width:
            (1)   All aprons shall have radius returns with B-6 curb or B-6.12
curb and gutter. The curb shall be depressed at sidewalk crossings. Curbs may
be tied into the apron or poured separately.
            (2)   The apron radius shall not extend over the side property line
without the approval of the neighboring property owner.
            (3)   Driveway aprons leading to parking areas having but one
access shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') at the property line in
industrial areas and twenty four feet (24') at the property line in commercial
areas.
            (4)   Driveway aprons leading to parking areas having more than one
access shall have a minimum width of twelve feet (12') at the property line in
commercial areas and ten feet (10') in industrial areas.
            (5)    Driveway aprons leading to areas used only for parking shall
have a maximum width of forty feet (40') at the property line.
            (6)   Driveway aprons leading to loading areas or to areas used
both for loading and parking shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') at
the property line in industrial areas and twenty-four feet (24') at the
property line in commercial areas.
            (7)   Driveway aprons leading to multiple loading areas (areas
where there is more than one loading dock) and to areas devoted to parking and
multiple loading areas shall meet the standard specifications and details as
set forth by the Director of Community Development.
         c.   Location:
            (1)   Driveways shall not be constructed within thirty feet (30')
of any intersection.
            (2)   Driveways shall not be constructed within ten feet (10') of a
fire hydrant.
         d.   Manholes: All manholes existing in driveways shall be formed box
shape with one-half inch (1/2") expansion joints.
         e.   Water Valves: All Village water valves that exist in the path of
driveways shall be encased in a concrete vault.
   C.   Curbs in Industrial and Commercial Areas:
      1.   New installation of aprons requires the removal of old curb and
gutters.
      2.   Old curb and gutters to be saw cut and removed.
      3.   New depressed curb and gutters shall be installed per Village
specifications.
      4.   Aprons shall have radius returns with B-6 curb or B-6.12 curb and
gutter. Curb shall be depressed at all sidewalk crossings. Curbs may be tied
into the apron or poured monolithically with apron.
      5.   All new curb and gutters shall be constructed of a 6-bag mixture of
portland cement concrete, shall have two (2) three-fourths (3/4) inch
reinforcing bars and a one-half inch (1/2") expansion joint at each cut in the
curb. Two (2) three-fourths (3/4) inch dowels shall be provided at every
expansion joint.
      6.   Storm sewer inlets in curb and gutter shall be Neenah #R-2504. Where
the inlet is in a depressed curb and gutter, Neenah #R-3205 shall be utilized.
§ 8-7A-4 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
§ 8-7A-5 REPLACEMENT.
   When an existing driveway or apron that does not meet the current Code is
removed and replaced, that driveway or apron shall be brought into compliance
with the current Code.
§ 8-7A-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Article shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues to exist.
   In addition to any penalty as hereinabove provided, the Village shall have
the right, by injunction, to enjoin the use of such offense in cases of
emergency by proceeding with the complaint therefor in the Third Municipal
District of the Circuit Court of Cook County or such other circuit court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
**** ARTICLE B. EXCAVATIONS ****
§ 8-7B-1 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the
Village without having obtained a permit therefor as is herein required or
without complying with the provisions of this Article or in violation of or
variance from the terms of any such permits.
   B.   Application for Permit; Issuance: Applications for such permits shall
be made to the Director of Community Development and shall describe the
location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose
therefor, the person doing the actual excavating work and the name of the
person for whom or which the work is being done and shall contain an agreement
that the applicant will comply with all ordinances relating to the work to be
done.
   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Director of Community
Development.
   C.   Fees: The fees for such permits shall be such as may be prescribed from
time to time by the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Bond:
      1.   Bond: No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant
therefor has filed with the Department of Community Development a bond in the
sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned to indemnify the Village
for any loss, liability or damage that may result or accrue from or because of
the making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or
excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do
business in the State of Illinois as a surety company.
§ 8-7B-2 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any
way contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground, and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
      2.   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits or to the
Village department employee charged with the care thereof, which are or may be
endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before
such pipes, cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
      3.   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub
or the roots thereof. (See also Subsection
8-9-2C of this Title.)
   B.   Sidewalks: If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary
sidewalk shall be constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and
convenient for users.
   C.   Time Limit: Each application for a permit shall state the length of
time that will elapse from the commencement of the work until it is restored.
It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless
permission for an extension of time is granted by the Director of Community
Development.
   D.   Restoration of Excavated Area:
      1.   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or public place in the Village shall restore the surface thereof
to its original condition or better. Refills shall be properly tamped down, and
any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
      2.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with the
ordinance and subject to the supervision of the Director of Community
Development or their authorized representative, or if such work is not done
within ten (10) days after restoration is possible, the Village may restore the
surface and charge the cost thereof to the permittee.
      3.   Any person making such excavation shall refill the same in such
manner as may be required by the Department of Community Development and shall
properly restore the surface to its original condition as soon as possible;
except, that any person making any excavation in any roadway, including roadway
under contract for construction, shall backfill such excavation with aggregate
in six inch (6") layers, each layer to be thoroughly tamped or consolidated by
vibratory consolidators. Excavations in existing concrete roadways shall be
capped with an eight inch (8") thickness of portland cement concrete which
shall conform with the minimum requirements as set forth in the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, prepared by the Illinois
Department of Transportation, as amended from time to time. Said cap shall
extend not less than twelve inches (12") beyond the edges of the excavation and
shall rest on undisturbed subgrade. Excavations in existing bituminous roadways
shall be capped with concrete in the same manner; except, that the cap shall be
recessed two inches (2") below the finish grade of the roadway and covered with
a two inch (2") layer of bituminous surface which shall conform with the
minimum requirements as set forth in the Standard Specifications referred to
herein.
      4.   Any person making an excavation in a landscaped area of the right-
of-way which is damaged or disturbed shall restore said landscaped area to its
original condition. All grassed areas shall be replaced with sod.
§ 8-7B-3 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person making or maintaining any excavation in any street or alley shall
keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons
and property from injury.
§ 8-7B-4 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Community Development or their authorized representative
shall, from time to time, inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or
under any public street, alley or other public place in the Village to see to
the enforcement of the provisions of this Article. Notice shall be given to the
Director of Community Development at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
§ 8-7B-5 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this Article relative to securing permits shall not apply
to Appointed Officers or employees of the Village engaged in doing work for the
Village nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or
grant from the Village if such franchise provides for the making of excavations
and tunnels without securing a permit therefor.
§ 8-7B-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Article shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues to exist.
   In addition to any penalty as hereinabove provided, the Village shall have
the right, by injunction, to enjoin the use of such offense in cases of
emergency by proceeding with the complaint therefor in the Third Municipal
District of the Circuit Court of Cook County or such other circuit court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
**** ARTICLE C. PARKING AREAS AND PARKING AREA DRIVEWAYS; PUBLIC INVITED ROADS,
ACCESS ROADS AND WAYS ****
§ 8-7C-1 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this Article, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   INTERIOR DRIVEWAYS: Driveways which principally connect the main access
driveway with the parking stall area and which are not primary vehicular
trafficways.
   MAIN ACCESS DRIVEWAY: The main driveway which directly connects the parking
area to adjacent public or private roadways or driveways which are used as
primary traffic-ways for vehicular traffic within a parking area.
   PARKING AREA: The off-street parking area for business, commercial, office,
institutional, research, industrial or multi-family residential developments of
six (6) dwelling units or greater, inclusive of the main access driveways,
interior driveways and the parking stalls.
   PARKING STALL AREA: That area which contains designated striping for vehicle
parking.
§ 8-7C-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct any parking area, including access driveways and
interior driveways, or receive a building permit for a structure requiring a
parking area as defined herein without having first obtained a permit in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3 of this Title. Application for such
permit shall be made to the Director of Community Development.
§ 8-7C-3 PARKING AREA SPECIFICATIONS.
   A.   All parking areas, including interior driveways and parking stalls, but
specifically excluding the main access driveways, shall be designed and
constructed to a minimum structural support level of 2.5 as established by the
Design Manual of the Illinois Department of Transportation Bureau of Design,
which Manual, as amended, is hereby adopted for reference.
   B.   All main access driveways as herein defined and such other areas
intended for or which are to be utilized for high-volume vehicular traffic or
medium volume truck traffic as determined by the Director of Community
Development shall be designed and constructed to a minimum structural support
level of 3.0.
§ 8-7C-4 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   A.   The property owner(s) of business, commercial, office, institutional,
research, industrial or multi-family residential developments of six (6)
dwelling units or greater shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
parking areas, parking area driveways, public invited private roads, access
roads and established ways for Municipal vehicles. Maintenance operations shall
include, but not be limited to pavements, striping and signing in accordance
with the requirements of the following:
      1.   Pavements: All pavement which represents a hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic shall be defined as one or more of the following:
         a.   A pot hole three inches (3") or more in depth covering one square
foot or more in area;
         b.   A rut two inches (2") or more in depth;
         c.   A fault with a one inch (1") or greater difference in elevation;
         d.   A crack one-half inch (1/2") or greater in width;
         e.   Settlement or sinking one inch (1") or greater in depth;
         f.   Disintegration covering a one square yard or greater area or any
other condition that is determined by the Director of Community Development to
be a hazard.
      Notification of the property owner and necessary maintenance of
activities shall be in accordance with Section
8-7C-5 of this Article.
      2.   Pavement Striping: All markings, whether placed on the pavement, on
curbs or on an object, shall be maintained to the extent that their usefulness
for directing and delineating traffic movements meets their intended purpose to
the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development.
      Notification of the property owner and necessary maintenance activities
shall be in accordance with Section
8-7C-5 of this Article.
      3.   Traffic Signing:
         a.   All signage shall be maintained to the extent that their
usefulness for directing and advising traffic movements meets their intended
purpose to the satisfaction of the Director of Community Development.
         b.   All traffic signs shall be kept in proper position, clean and
legible at all times. Special care should be taken to see that weeds, trees,
shrubbery and construction materials do not obscure the visibility of any sign.
         c.   Damaged, defaced, dirty and/or obscured signage shall be replaced
and/or maintained in accordance with Section
8-7C-5 of this Article.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or owners of any private road,
driveway or access road on which the public is invited or on which an easement
is created for Municipal vehicles, including fire lanes (see Subsection
6-4-4 of this Code), to cause or allow said road or driveway to be in a state
of disrepair so that normal travel is impeded or the condition is such that
damage to any vehicle on said road or accessway is likely.
§ 8-7C-5 NOTIFICATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   The Director of Community Development shall notify the property owner or
occupant concerning violations of this Article. Such notification shall
indicate the nature of the violation and an amount of time allowed for
compliance. Upon receipt of said notice, the property owner shall notify the
Director of Community Development within ten (10) working days of their plans
for corrective action. Time to comply shall be determined as follows:
   A.   During the construction season (April 1 to October 30), a maximum of
thirty (30) calendar days for a permanent repair;
   B.   At other times of the year, a maximum of seven (7) calendar days for a
temporary repair;
   C.   For hazardous pavement damage which would result in either vehicular or
personal property damage or injury to pedestrians, a maximum of twenty-four
(24) hours for a temporary repair.
   Extensions for compliance may be granted under special circumstances and
demonstration of undue hardship.
§ 8-7C-6 APPEALS AND VARIATIONS.
   Any appeal of the determination of the Director of Community Development or
any request for a variation of the provisions of this Article shall be made to
the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Any person requesting Board review shall do so
in writing and shall specify clearly and in detail the nature of the relief
requested and the reasons therefor. The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall
consider the matter on review at a regularly scheduled Board meeting, at a
specially convened Board meeting, at a meeting of the Committee of the Whole or
at a meeting of a standing committee of the Board specifically designated by
the Mayor and Board to hear and determine any such matter on review.
§ 8-7C-7 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
   In addition to any penalty as hereinabove provided, the Village shall have
the right by injunction to enjoin the use of such parking area, parking area
driveway, public invited private road, access road or established way for
Municipal vehicles and, in cases of emergency, shall have the right to
immediately close any of the aforementioned areas and thereof proceed by
injunction to enforce the provisions of this Article.
CHAPTER 8: IMPROVEMENTS BY PRIVATE CONTRACT
Section
   
8-8-1   Permit Required
   
8-8-2   Bond
   
8-8-3   Plan Review; Inspection Fees
   
8-8-4   Public Improvement Testing; Testing Fee
§ 8-8-1 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No street, driveway, parking lot, access drive, curb, curb and gutter,
sidewalk, water main, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, lighting system or other
public or private improvement required by this Title or otherwise in this Code,
whether on public property, property intended to be dedicated for public use or
private property, shall hereafter be constructed in the Village by private
contract until a permit therefor shall have been obtained. The permit fee shall
consist of a plan review fee, inspection fee and/or a public improvement
testing fee as hereafter established.
§ 8-8-2 BOND.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction of improvements regulated by
the terms of this Chapter until the applicant has filed with the Director of
Community Development a bond or bonds required by the provisions of this Title,
by the Village Subdivision Control Ordinance (see Chapter 11 of this Title) or
other applicable ordinances or resolutions requiring bonds or surety bonds for
such construction. The form of said bonds and the amounts contained therein
must be approved by the Director of Community Development.
§ 8-8-3 PLAN REVIEW; INSPECTION FEES.
   No improvement as above set forth shall be constructed without an
engineering plan relating thereto, which plan shall be prepared by or under the
direction of the Director of Community Development. In any case where plans and
specifications shall be prepared by an engineer other than the Director of
Community Development, then and in that event, the Director of Community
Development, or their duly designated representative, shall review all plans
and specifications and shall inspect the improvements proposed to be made
during the course of construction. The applicant shall pay to the Village as
and for the Village’s cost for such plan reviews and construction inspections,
the fees set forth in Resolution 10-10 duly passed and approved on February 9,
2010, and any subsequent resolution amending Resolution 10-10.
§ 8-8-4 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT TESTING; TESTING FEE.
   All improvements constructed on public property or on property intended to
be dedicated for public use shall be tested by the Director of Community
Development. To defray the costs of the material testing services by the
Director of Community Development, each owner or developer constructing
improvements regulated herein shall pay a testing fee to the Village, which fee
shall be equal to one-half of one percent of the estimated cost of construction
of all public improvements.
CHAPTER 9: TREES, SHRUBS AND STREAMBANK PROTECTION
Section
   
8-9-1   Planting and Removal Permits
   
8-9-2   Protection of Trees
   
8-9-3   Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
8-9-4   Dangerous Trees and Shrubs
   
8-9-5   Protection of Streambank Stabilization along Salt Creek
   
8-9-6   Penalties
§ 8-9-1 PLANTING AND REMOVAL PERMITS.
   A.   Planting Permit: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any
public street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Director of
Community Development. All trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject
to the directions of the Director of Public Works or their authorized
representative.
   B.   Removal Permit: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place without having first secured
a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Director
of Community Development for approval before permission shall be granted.
§ 8-9-2 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   A.   Wires and Ropes: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or other rope
to any tree without permission of the Director of Community Development.
   Any person or company given the rights to maintain poles and wires in the
streets, alleys or other public places in the Village shall, in the absence of
provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as may be
possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject
to the supervision of the Director of Public Works or their authorized
representative so that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires or shrubs
and trees by contact.
   B.   Gas Pipes: Any person maintaining any gas pipe in the Village shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks.
   C.   Excavations: In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub
wherever possible. (See also Subsection
8-7B-2A3 of this Title.)
§ 8-9-3 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   A.   Injury to Trees and Shrubs: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or
shrub planted in any such public place.
   B.   Attaching Advertisements and Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach
any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any street, parkway
or other public place.
§ 8-9-4 DANGEROUS TREES AND SHRUBS.
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the Village in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   B.   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows or stands.
§ 8-9-5 PROTECTION OF STREAMBANK STABILIZATION ALONG SALT CREEK.
   A.   The Buffer Zone: An area of restored native vegetation adjacent to each
side of Salt Creek. The minimum buffer zone width for properties abutting Salt
Creek owned by Elk Grove Village, Elk Grove Park District and School District
214 is the distance from the water’s edge to a point twenty feet (20') from the
top of the creek bank, measured horizontally and perpendicular to the creek
centerline. The minimum buffer zone width for other properties abutting Salt
Creek is the distance from the water’s edge to a point ten feet (10') from the
top of the creek bank, measured horizontally and perpendicular to the creek
centerline.
   B.   Prohibited and Restricted Activities in the “Buffer Zone”: The
following activities and uses are expressly prohibited in the “buffer zone”
adjacent to Salt Creek:
      1.   Removal or alteration of bioengineering components of streambank
stabilization, including A-jacks, lunkers, vegetated geogrid, coir fiber roll,
live stakes, regraded slopes, stabilization vegetation, mulch and
appurtenances;
      2.   Dumping or storage of soil, trash, ashes, garbage, waste, landscape
materials, leaves, compost, abandoned vehicles, appliances or machinery, or
other materials;
      3.   Excavation, dredging and removal of soil, loam, gravel, rock, sand
and other materials, or grading/regrading;
      4.   Construction of any building, facility or other structure;
      5.   Use of pesticides, insecticides, herbicides, fertilizers or other
chemical compounds;
      6.   The pruning, cutting down or other destruction or removal of live
trees, except as necessary, in accordance with generally accepted forestry
conservation practices, to control or prevent hazard, disease or fire;
      7.   Destruction, trampling, mowing or other adverse impact to the
vegetative buffer strip along the creek;
      8.   Any activities or uses detrimental or adverse to the maintenance of
streambank stabilization, water quality, erosion control, soil conservation and
the preservation of wildlife habitat.
§ 8-9-6 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues to exist.
   In addition to any penalty as hereinabove provided, the Village shall have
the right, by injunction, to enjoin the use of such offense in cases of
emergency by proceeding with the complaint therefor in the Third Municipal
District of the Circuit Court of Cook County or such other circuit court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 10: REGULATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
8-10-1   Purpose
   
8-10-2   Definitions
   
8-10-3   How to Use this Chapter
   
8-10-4   Duties of the Director of Community Development
   
8-10-5   Base Flood Elevation
   
8-10-6   Occupation and Use of Flood Fringe Areas
   
8-10-7   Occupation and Use of Designated Floodways
   
8-10-8   Occupation and Use of Special Flood Hazard Areas Where Floodways Are
Not Identified
   
8-10-9   Permitting Requirements Applicable to All Floodplain Areas
   
8-10-10   Other Development Requirements
   
8-10-11   Variances
   
8-10-12   Disclaimer of Liability
   
8-10-13   Penalty
   
8-10-14   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
§ 8-10-1 PURPOSE.
   This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the Village
of Elk Grove Village by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and
5/11-31-2. The purpose of this Chapter is to maintain Elk Grove Village’s
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This Chapter is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 ILCS 5/18g, Rivers, Lakes and Streams
Act;
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   F.   To make Federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the Village by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program;
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   H.   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources; and
   I.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
§ 8-10-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A non-habitable structure which is on the same parcel
of property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   ACT: An Act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the State of Illinois, 615 ILCS 5/4.9 et seq.
   APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in Subsection
8-10-7 of this Chapter.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in Section
8-10-5 of this Chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT: That portion of the building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, rip-rapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross-
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off-site floodwater elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this Chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map, once the as-built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community or can put
special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of critical facilities where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants and pumping stations.
   DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally
depicted on the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing
100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in
stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten
percent (10%) increase in velocities.
      1.   The floodways are designated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map of Cook and DuPage Counties prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008 and
August 1, 2019. When two (2) floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more
restrictive floodway limit shall prevail.
      2.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook and DuPage
Counties that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of
Elk Grove Village that may be annexed into the Village are designated for Salt
Creek on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by FEMA and dated
August 19, 2008 and August 1, 2019.
      3.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the
designated floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map
and located on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where
interpretation is needed to determine the exact location of the designated
floodway boundary, IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, repair or placement of a building or
any addition to a building;
      2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
      3.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days in a calendar year;
      4.   Installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges or similar
projects;
      5.   Demolition of a structure, redevelopment of a site, clearing of land
as an adjunct of construction;
      6.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams or culverts;
channel modification;
      7.   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, drilling, mining or
other non-agricultural alteration of the ground surface;
      8.   Storage of material including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters;
      9.   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal;
      10.   If a travel trailer or recreational vehicle is on-site for less
than one hundred eighty (180) days in a calendar year, it must be fully
licensed and ready for highway use. Development does not include such
activities as re-surfacing of pavement when there is no increase in elevation,
or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading or construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this Chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes including State, Federal or local units of
government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59 –
79, as amended.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway. See definition of “designated floodway”.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency floods plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in
the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
      1.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the
Village of Elk Grove Village that are subject to inundation by the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood. The SFHAs of the Village of Elk Grove Village are
generally identified as such on panel numbers 0193, 0194, 0211, 0213, 0214,
0218, 0331, 0332, 0351 and 0352 of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Cook County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
August 19, 2008 and panels 076 and 077 of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate
Map of DuPage County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated August 1, 2019.
      2.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook and DuPage Counties
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Elk Grove
Village or that may be annexed into the Village are generally identified as
such on panel numbers 0192, 0193, 0194, 0211, 0213, 0214, 0218, 0331, 0332,
0351 and 0352 of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Cook County
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 19, 2008
and panels 076 and 077 of the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of DuPage
County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 1,
2019.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOODWAY: See definition of designated floodway.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency;
      4.   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a 100-year floodplain; amends the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, floodplains or floodways as shown on an effective
FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this Chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
“manufactured home” also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on-site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational
vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION: Mitigation includes those measures necessary to minimize the
negative effects which floodplain development activities might have on the
public health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include: excavation
of compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control and channel
restoration. Mitigation may also include those activities taken to reduce a
structure’s susceptibility to flooding.
   NAVD 88: National American Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross-section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is re-
established. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: New construction means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers and streams which in their natural condition were capable
of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or discharge
their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the borders of the
State of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs, backwaters and submerged
lands that are open to the main channel or body of water directly accessible
thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures, including a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing and
proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall preclude
the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in part, of a
flood control project by persons or parties who are not public agencies.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred (400') square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
      4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGIONAL PERMITS: Regional permits are offered for pre-approved projects
which are considered minor projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR part 3708
Rules for Northeastern Illinois Regulatory Floodways. A complete listing of the
terms and conditions for specific project types can be obtained from the IDNR/
OWR website.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Land Surveyors Act (225 ILCS 330/1 et
seq.).
   REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the
State of Illinois, under the Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act of
1989 (225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.).
   REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10)-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty-
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on-stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): See definition of “floodplain”.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
   STATEWIDE PERMITS: Statewide permits are offered for pre-approved projects
that are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR part
3700 Rules. A complete listing of the Statewide permits and permit requirements
can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
   STRUCTURE: See definition of “building”.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this Chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. This term
includes repetitive loss buildings; see definition of “repetitive loss”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
Chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement
or repair is started.
      1.   “Substantial improvement” is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the building. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
      2.   This term does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing State or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         b.   Any alteration of a “historic structure” listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross-section to a wide cross-section or vice versa.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time as
that documentation is provided.
§ 8-10-3 HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER.
   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for fulfilling
all of the duties listed in Section
8-10-4 of this Chapter.
   To fulfill those duties, the Director of Community Development should first
use the criteria listed in Section
8-10-5, “Base Flood Elevation”, of this Chapter to determine whether the
development site is located within a floodplain.
   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a floodplain, the
Director of Community Development must determine whether the development site
is within a flood fringe, a designated floodway or within a SFHA or floodplain
for which no floodway has been identified.
   If the site is within a flood fringe, the Director of Community Development
shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-10-6 of this Chapter be met.
   If the site is within a floodway, the Director of Community Development
shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-10-7 of this Chapter be met.
   If the site is located within a SFHA or floodplain for which no detailed
study has been completed and approved, the Director of Community Development
shall require that the minimum requirements of Section
8-10-8 of this Chapter be met.
   In addition, the general requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of Section
8-10-6,
8-10-7 or
8-10-8 of this Chapter.
   The Director of Community Development shall assure that all subdivision
proposals shall meet the requirements of Section
8-10-10 of this Chapter.
   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the Director of Community
Development shall review the requirements of Section
8-10-11 of this Chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the Director of
Community Development shall complete all notification requirements.
   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in this
Chapter, the Director of Community Development may take any and all actions as
outlined in Section
8-10-13 of this Chapter.
§ 8-10-4 DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   A.   Determining the Floodplain Designation:
      1.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      2.   If they are in a SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a licensed professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the Village for review to ensure that the
development meets Section
8-10-7 or
8-10-8 of this Chapter.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of Section
8-10-7 of this Chapter.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements: Dams are classified as to their size and their
hazard/damage potential in the event of failure. Permits for dams may be
required from IDNR/OWR. Contact IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required.
If a permit is required, a permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to
the construction or major modification of jurisdictional dams.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure any and all required Federal, State
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review and Permit Issuance:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the Village of Elk Grove Village meet the requirements of this
Chapter; and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this Chapter.
   F.   Inspection Review:
      1.   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter; and
      2.   Schedule on an annual basis an inspection of the floodplain and
document the results of the inspection.
   G.   Substantial Damage and Substantial Improvement Determinations:
Establish, in coordination with the Director of Community Development,
procedures for administering and documenting determinations, as outlined below,
of substantial improvement and substantial damage made pursuant to Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
      1.   Determine the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made.
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure.
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or substantial damage.
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the Village of Elk Grove
Village and this Chapter is required.
   H.   Elevation and Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
      1.   An Elevation Certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or non-residential building subject
to Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter; and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a non-residential building has been
floodproofed, using a Floodproofing Certificate, for all buildings subject to
Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
   I.   Records for Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of Federal or State permit documents, variance documentation, Conditional
Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Revision, Letter of Map Amendment and “as
built” elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this Chapter.
   J.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to Sections
8-10-7 and
8-10-8 of this Chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the Village of Elk Grove Village. However, the following review approvals are
not delegated to the Village of Elk Grove Village and shall require review or
permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this Chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter and all other State, Federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the Village of Elk Grove Village and County,
except for those projects meeting the requirements of Subsection
8-10-7B7 of this Chapter;
      3.   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per Subsection
8-10-7B3d of this Chapter;
      4.   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to Subsection
8-10-7B3d of this Chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in Subsections
8-10-7B3a, B3b and B3h of this Chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the mapped floodway or published flood profiles.
   K.   Cooperation with Other Agencies:
      1.   Cooperate with State and Federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this Chapter;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six (6) months whenever a modification of the floodplain
may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain
map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this Chapter.
   L.   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any changes to this Chapter.
   M.   Variances: If a variance is to be granted, the Director of Community
Development shall review the requirements of Section
8-10-11 of this Chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the Director of
Community Development shall complete all notification requirements.
   N.   Enforcement: In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as
required in this Chapter, the Director of Community Development may take any
and all actions as outlined in Section
8-10-13 of this Chapter.
§ 8-10-5 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This Chapter’s protection standard is based on the Flood Insurance Study for
the Village of Elk Grove Village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year
frequency flood elevation is not available for a particular site, then the
protection standard shall be according to the best existing data available from
Federal, State or other sources. When a party disagrees with the best available
data, they shall submit a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing
data with better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and
consideration prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Salt Creek, the Elk Grove Boulevard drainage ditch, the Unnamed Creek, the west
branch of Salt Creek and the tributary to the west branch of Salt Creek shall
be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of
Cook County prepared by FEMA dated August 19, 2008 and for the DuPage County
portions of the Village, the 100-year profiles are shown in the DuPage County
Flood Insurance Study dated August 1, 2019, and such amendments to such study
and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook and DuPage Counties that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Elk Grove Village or that may
be annexed into the Village shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Cook and DuPage Counties prepared by
FEMA and dated August 19, 2008 and August 1, 2019 and such amendments or
revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the Countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Cook and DuPage
Counties.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the Countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Cook and DuPage Counties shall be according to the best existing
data available from Federal, State or other sources. Should no other data
exist, an engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base
flood elevations.
      1.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, HEC-RAS or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
      2.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-1, TR-20 or HIP, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States Geological
Survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
§ 8-10-6 OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this Chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this Section, along with the requirements of
Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the Director of Community Development.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Director of Community Development.
         a.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings.
         b.   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
      3.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the Director of
Community Development shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         a.   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map
without a permit as required by this Chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this Chapter.
         b.   The Director of Community Development shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
      4.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas shall
be submitted. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
      5.   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other Federal, State and local
permits, approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity.
The Director of Community Development shall not issue a permit unless all other
Federal, State and local permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
      1.   Site Elevation: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      2.   Compensatory Storage:
         a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         e.   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse.
   C.   Construction of the Lowest Floor below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE):
A person who has obtained a Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill that removes a
site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate
the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the Village of Elk Grove
Village to construct the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE
in the flood fringe. The Director of Community Development shall not issue such
a permit unless the applicant has complied with all the criteria set forth in
the following Subsections.
      1.   Compensatory storage shall be provided per Subsection B2 of this
Section.
      2.   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, access ways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
      3.   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the Director of Community Development may waive the ten foot (10') minimum
setback if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an
alternative method to protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. The certifications shall be in the form of a detailed
soils and structural design analysis, which shall be submitted to the Director
of Community Development for review. The Director of Community Development may
require such additional documentation as necessary to prove that the proposed
shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe. In no case
shall the setback distance be less than four feet (4').
      4.   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE.
However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained,
the Director of Community Development may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum
setback distance if an Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that
an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. A detailed soils analysis and structural design proving
that a shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from
flooding, shall be submitted to the Village of Elk Grove Village for review. In
no case shall the setback distance be less than four feet (4').
      5.   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this Subsection and is at least five feet (5') thick under
the basement floor slab. Nothing in this Subsection shall be interpreted to
require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a LOMR-F,
if such fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification
and degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according
to ASTM standard D-2487, Classification of Soils for Engineering Purposes.
      6.   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic; that is, the
soil must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the
same direction.
      7.   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
      8.   The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five feet (5') below the BFE.
      9.   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-quarter (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
      10.   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
      11.   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
      12.   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraphs of this Subsection C, the Director of
Community Development may allow the construction of a basement below the BFE
only if the applicant demonstrates that the proposed fill and structure meet
the guidelines and requirements set forth in FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01 and
are reasonably safe from flooding. In order to demonstrate that the proposed
structure is reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant shall submit a
detailed engineering analysis of the proposed fill and foundation wall. The
engineered basement study shall be completed in accordance with the latest
edition of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of the fill being
prepared by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
      13.   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on-site, in
no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted.
§ 8-10-7 OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS.
   This Section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site
modification or building modification within a designated floodway. The
designated floodway for Salt Creek, the Elk Grove Boulevard drainage ditch, the
Unnamed Creek, the west branch of Salt Creek and the tributary to the west
branch of Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the Countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of Cook County and referenced in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this Section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
   A.   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by State law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the Director of Community Development
and IDNR/OWR.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Director of Community Development. The application shall
include the following information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant;
         b.   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         c.   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         d.   Description of proposed activity;
         e.   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         f.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         g.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      h.   Signature of the applicant or the applicant’s agent;
         i.   If the applicant is a corporation, the President or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         j.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
         k.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by them as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
         l.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as
a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale and north arrow;
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
location of any channels and any existing or future access roads, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), designated
floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed
channel modifications, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow
and a graphic or numerical scale;
            (3)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
            (4)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance;
            (5)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         m.   Any and all other Federal, State and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development;
         n.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of Subsection B of
this Section;
         o.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a Letter of Map Revision has been approved by FEMA.
         p.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a licensed
professional engineer, licensed architect or licensed land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter; and
         q.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
            (1)   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed
work;
            (2)   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative
locations or methods (see Subsection B3i of this Section) to accomplish the
purpose of the proposed work;
            (3)   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in Subsection B3i of this Section would have on
the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
            (4)   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project,
considering cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the
body of water affected.
      2.   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other Federal, State and local
permits and approvals that may be required for this type of activity.
         a.   The Director of Community Development shall not issue the
development permit unless all required Federal and State permits have been
obtained.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer, under the employ or contract of
the Village of Elk Grove Village shall review and approve applications reviewed
under this Section.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages and a List of Appropriate Uses:
      1.   Appropriate Uses: The only development in a floodway which will be
allowed are appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood
elevation and which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging increase
in flood heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and safety and
welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the
floodway or channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic
habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation
methods as called for in this Chapter. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17
Ill. Adm. Code part 3708 will be allowed. The approved appropriate uses are as
follows:
         a.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         b.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         c.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         d.   Underground and overhead utilities;
         e.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems,
including any related fencing (at least fifty percent (50%) open when viewed
from any one (1) direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and
including open air pavilions and toilet facilities (four (4) stall maximum)
that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         f.   Detached garages, storage sheds or other non-habitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         g.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         h.   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            (1)   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed one (1.0) foot; or
            (2)   The applicant of a short-term recreational use facility
parking lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events
and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all
overbank flooding events;
         i.   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
non-erosive slope toward a watercourse;
         j.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
         k.   The replacement, reconstruction or repair of a damaged building,
provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building was
damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the damage
occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection
elevation;
         l.   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios and second story additions. If the
building is improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will
be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Nonappropriate Uses: Appropriate uses do not include the
construction or placement of any new structures, fill, building additions,
buildings on stilts, excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate
otherwise non-appropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping
or planting designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as
specifically defined above as an appropriate use.
      3.   Engineering and Mitigation Criteria: Within the designated floodway,
the construction of an appropriate use will be considered permissible provided
that the proposed project meets the following engineering and mitigation
criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting plans, calculations and
data by a licensed professional engineer and provided that any structure meets
the protection requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter:
         a.   Preservation of Flood Conveyance, So as Not to Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on-stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)   Designated floodway conveyance, “K” = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
“n” is Manning’s roughness factor, “A” is the effective flow area of the cross-
section and “R” is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Ven Te
Chow, Open Channel Hydraulics, McGrawHill, New York 1959.);
            (2)   The same Manning’s “n” value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a Federal,
State or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover;
            (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant’s engineer
can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency.
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream’s length.
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream’s
length.
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used.
               (D)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross-
sections with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated
floodway delineation on adjacent properties.
               (E)   All cross-sections used in the calculations shall be
located perpendicular to flood flows.
         b.   Preservation of Floodway Storage So as Not to Increase Downstream
Flooding:
            (1)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            (2)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least one and one-half (1.5) times the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            (3)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            (4)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
            (5)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant’s engineer shall
demonstrate through a determination of flood discharges and water surface
elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
            (6)   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a
result of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to
reduce flooding at existing structure.
         c.   Preservation of Floodway Velocities So as Not to Increase Stream
Erosion or Flood Heights:
            (1)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on-
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events
up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
            (2)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on-stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of rip-rap or other design measures.
         d.   Construction of New Bridges or Culvert Crossings and Roadway
Approaches:
            (1)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or
within recorded flood easements.
            (2)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a
permit for a dam or waiver.
               (A)   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in Section
8-10-5 of this Chapter. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any
commonly accepted FEMA approved hydraulic models.
               (B)   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per
Subsection B3b of this Section.
               (C)   Velocity increases must be mitigated per Subsection B3c of
this Section.
               (D)   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is
used for recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be
received.
               (E)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the
bridge showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
Subsection B.
               (F)   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall
be designed per Subsection B3h of this Section.
         e.   Reconstruction or Modification of Existing Bridges, Culverts and
Approach Roads:
            (1)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
            (2)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant’s engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Ill. Adm. Code part 3708 (Floodway Construction in
Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
         f.   On-Stream Structures Built for the Purpose of Backing up Water:
            (1)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot
when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel
banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as
within the design protection grade of existing levees or flood walls or within
recorded flood easements.
            (2)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must
be obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            (3)   All dams and impoundment structures as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Ill. Adm.
Code part 3702 (Construction and Maintenance of Dams). If the proposed activity
involves a modification of the channel or floodway to accommodate an
impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
               (A)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest
by providing flood control, public recreation or regional stormwater detention;
               (B)   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of
indigenous fish species, which require access to upstream areas as part of
their life cycle, such as for spawning;
               (C)   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation
basin;
               (D)   A non-point source control plan has been implemented in
the upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
               (E)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of
this Section.
         g.   Floodproofing of Existing Habitable, Residential and Commercial
Structures:
            (1)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
            (2)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing activities.
         h.   Excavation in the Floodway:
            (1)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            (2)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant’s engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
               (A)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream’s length;
and
               (B)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream’s
length; and
               (C)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical
direction, a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet
(10') of stream length shall be used; and
               (D)   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
         i.   Channel Modification: If the proposed activity involves a channel
modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which
would accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the
body of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank
stabilization, floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from
the floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel or the establishment of
a stream side buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable if
the purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish
and wildlife habitat;
            (2)   Water quality, habitat and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
            (3)   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria.
               (A)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross-
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical.
               (B)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at
both the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they
will prevent erosion.
               (C)   One-sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation.
               (D)   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to
that which is essential for construction of the channel.
               (E)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or rip-rap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as
concrete, gabions or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
               (F)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall
be seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover.
               (G)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles and other similar features, such features
shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and flow
characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established, where
appropriate.
               (H)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end
of the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality.
               (I)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry and
all items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel.
               (J)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project.
               (K)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification; and
            (4)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
Section.
         j.   Seeding and Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         k.   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in
the floodway, including grading, filling and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria.
            (1)   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the
maximum vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the
time soil is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural
vegetation be destroyed, removed or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior
to the initiation of improvements.
            (2)   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be
applied to denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization
shall be provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any
portion of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may
not be at final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60)
days.
            (3)   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off-site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion ditches
and sediment traps and basins.
            (4)   A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty-five feet (25')
in width shall be preserved and/or re-established, where possible, along
existing channels. (See Subsection B3p of this Section.) Construction vehicle
use of channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be
constructed, where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or
along channels shall be restabilized immediately.
            (5)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be
designed and implemented consistent with “Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in Illinois” (1988) also known as the
“Green Book” and the “Illinois Urban Manual” (NRCS, 1995).
         l.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this Section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right-of-way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         m.   General Criteria for Analysis of Flood Elevations:
            (1)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in Section
8-10-5 of this Chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR
shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base
conditions data to use.
            (2)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
               (A)   The requirements of this Section for the 100-year
frequency flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
               (B)   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
            (3)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this Section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         n.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision:
            (1)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            (2)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as-built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   In the case of non-government projects, the Municipality in
incorporated areas and the County in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            (4)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            (5)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         o.   Professional Engineer’s Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed professional
engineer.
         p.   Construction Within Twenty-Five (25') Feet of Channel: For all
activities in the floodway involving construction within twenty-five feet (25')
of the channel, the following criteria shall be met.
            (1)   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within
at least twenty-five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
            (2)   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during
the construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
         q.   Conditions Met Before Construction Commences: After receipt of
conditional approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit
and a Conditional Letter of Map Revision, construction as necessary to change
the floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final Letter of Map Revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the “as-built” plans.
      4.   Development Activities in Delegated Communities Requiring State
Review: For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence and/or permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or
county delegated State permitting authority in the floodway:
         a.   An engineer’s analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to Subsection B3d of this Section;
         b.   An engineer’s determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to Subsection B3e of this Section;
         c.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulical equivalent
storage pursuant to Subsections B3a, B3b and B3h of this Section;
         d.   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter) and all other Federal, State or local units of
government projects, including projects of the Municipality or County;
         e.   An engineer’s determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening;
         f.   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles;
         g.   Projects in public bodies of water.
      5.   Other Permits:
         a.   In addition to the other requirements of this Chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 ILCS 5/5 et seq.
         b.   No correspondence from IDNR/OWR shall be required if the project
meets the requirements of Regional Permit 3.
         c.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the Village of Elk Grove Village.
      6.   Permits for Dams:
         a.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
dam as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter per 17 Ill. Adm. Code part 3702 (Rules for Construction
of Dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of
a dam.
         b.   If the Director of Community Development finds a dam that does
not have an IDNR/OWR permit, the Director of Community Development shall
immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Bartlett Office.
         c.   If the Director of Community Development finds a dam which is
believed to be in an unsafe condition, the Director of Community Development
shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett Office and
the Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
      7.   Activities That Do Not Require a Licensed Professional Engineer’s
Review: Regional Permit 3 which authorizes, for example, underground and
overhead utilities, storm and sanitary sewer outfalls, sidewalks, patios,
athletic fields, playground equipment and streambank protection activities may
be permitted without a licensed professional engineer’s review. Such activities
shall still meet the other requirements of this Chapter, including the
mitigation requirements.
§ 8-10-8 OCCUPATION AND USE OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE
NOT IDENTIFIED.
   In SFHA or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A Zones) where
no floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body, not exempted by
State law, shall commence any development in a SFHA or floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Director of Community Development.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Director of Community Development.
         a.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter.
         b.   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose
and intended use;
            (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include as a minimum:
               (A)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of
the waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site,
graphic or numerical scale and north arrow;
               (B)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American Vertical Datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water), floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow and a graphical
or numerical scale;
               (C)   Cross-section views of the project perpendicular to the
flow of floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed
conditions including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view,
existing and proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency
flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood elevation and graphical or numerical
scales (horizontal and vertical); and
               (D)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for
disturbed areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of
grading activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to
be implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure post-construction maintenance.
         c.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of Subsection B of this
Section.
         d.   Any and all other Federal, State and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      3.   Based on the best available existing data according to Federal,
State or other sources, the Director of Community Development shall compare the
elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         a.   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer’s engineer shall calculate the elevation according to Subsection
8-10-5D of this Chapter.
         b.   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current Flood Insurance Rate Map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this Chapter.
         c.   The Director of Community Development shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
      4.   The Director of Community Development shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other Federal, State and local
permits, approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity.
The Director of Community Development shall not issue the development permit
unless all required Federal, State and local permits have been obtained.
   B.   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   Prohibition: No development in the SFHA where a floodway has not
been determined shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in
flood heights or velocity or threat to public health, safety and welfare or
impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or
channel, or impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction
impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in
this Chapter.
      2.   Riverine SFHAs Standards: Within all riverine SFHAs where the
floodway has not been determined, the following standards shall apply.
         a.   Licensed Professional Engineer Statement: The developer shall
have a licensed professional engineer state in writing and show through
supporting plans, calculations and data that the project meets the engineering
requirements of Subsections
8-10-7B3a through B3i of this Chapter for the entire floodplain as calculated
under the provisions of Subsection
8-10-5D of this Chapter.
            (1)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR and FEMA for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            (2)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR and FEMA, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of
Section
8-10-7 of this Chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter.
         b.   Development Permit: A development permit shall not be issued
unless the applicant first obtains an IDNR/OWR permit or a determination has
been made that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required.
         c.   Permits for Dams:
            (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a dam as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter per 17 Ill. Adm. Code part 3702 (Rules for Construction
of Dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of construction of
a dam.
            (2)   If the Director of Community Development finds a dam that
does not have an IDNR/OWR permit, the Director of Community Development shall
immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Bartlett Office.
            (3)   If the Director of Community Development finds a dam which is
believed to be in unsafe condition, the Director of Community Development shall
immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett Office and the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency (IEMA).
      3.   Permitted Activities: The following activities may be permitted
without a licensed professional engineer’s review or calculation of base flood
elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this Chapter:
         a.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 2;
         b.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
         c.   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 4;
         d.   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit
No. 5;
         e.   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 6; activities (not involving fill or positive change in
grade) are covered by this permit;
         f.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
         g.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
         h.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
         i.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
         j.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
         k.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
         l.   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 13;
         m.   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 14; and
         n.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from State floodway permit
requirements.
      4.   Flood Carrying Capacity to Be Maintained: The flood carrying
capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse shall be maintained.
      5.   Compensatory Storage:
         a.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         b.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         c.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         d.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
§ 8-10-9 PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   In addition to the requirements found in Sections
8-10-6,
8-10-7 and
8-10-8 of this Chapter for development in flood fringes, designated floodways
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified, the following
requirements shall be met.
   A.   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE) unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed
and anchored storage tank and certified by a professional engineer or
floodproofed building constructed according to the requirements of this
Chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on-site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other above ground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
      5.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
   B.   Carrying Capacity and Notification:
      1.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      2.   In addition, the Village of Elk Grove Village shall notify adjacent
communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for
the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
   C.   Protecting Buildings:
      1.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as a
SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood protection
elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         a.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this Chapter. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this Section;
         b.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this Chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this Section;
         c.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do
not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully
occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage);
         d.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year; and
         e.   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter. This building protection requirement may be met by one
of the methods identified in Subsections C2 through C8 of this Section.
      2.   A residential or non-residential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         a.   At or above Flood Protection Elevation: The lowest floor
(including basement) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation; and
         b.   Fill Requirements:
            (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation; and
            (2)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures; and
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure; and
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporate debris or refuse materials; and
            (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater
management techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      3.   A residential or non-residential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawlspace,
stilts, piles, walls or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on
each wall, shall be no more than one foot (1') above existing grade, and
consists of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch (1") for every one square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation; and
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris; and
         c.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation; and
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         d.   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space; and
         e.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by licensed professional engineer or
architect;
         f.   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above the
flood protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse
or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with 77 Ill. Adm. Code
part 870, being the rules and regulations issued under the Illinois Mobile Home
Tie-Down Act, 210 ILCS 120/1. In addition, all manufactured homes shall meet
the following elevation requirements.
            (1)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty-six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
         g.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of Subsection C3f of this Section
unless:
            (1)   They are on-site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed, ready for highway use and used only
for recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      4.   Only a non-residential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood;
         b.   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice;
         c.   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this Subsection).
      5.   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch (1") per one square foot (1')
of enclosed area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade;
and
         c.   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade; and
         d.   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point; and
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event; and
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
      6.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
      7.   Tool sheds, detached garages and other minor accessory structures on
an existing single-family platted lot, may be constructed with the lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
         a.   The building is not used for human habitation; and
         b.   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of Section
8-10-7 of this Chapter. In addition, all other requirements of Sections
8-10-6,
8-10-7 and
8-10-8 of this Chapter must be met; and
         c.   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation; and
         d.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation; and
         e.   The building shall be valued at less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) and be less than five hundred (500') square feet in floor size;
and
         f.   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or
tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses
and cannot be modified later into another use; and
         g.   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
Subsection C3a of this Section; and
         h.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
         i.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      8.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in Section
8-10-7 of this Chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with Subsection
8-10-7B of this Chapter. A non-conforming structure damaged by flood, fire,
wind or other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was damaged, in which
case it shall conform to this Chapter.
§ 8-10-10 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to
the extent that they are known in all official actions related to land
management, use and development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with Sections
8-10-6,
8-10-7,
8-10-8 and
8-10-9 of this Chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.).
   B.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
   Where this information is not available from an existing adopted study, the
applicant’s engineer shall be responsible for calculating the base flood or
100-year frequency flood elevation per Subsection
8-10-5D of this Chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter.
   C.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   D.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall not approve any planned
development (PD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits
unless such agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
   E.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
§ 8-10-11 VARIANCES.
   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a designated
floodway as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter. Whenever the standards of this Chapter place undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
Department of Community Development for a variance. The Department of Community
Development shall review the applicant’s request for a variance and shall
submit its recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The Village of
Elk Grove Village may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the flood protection intent of this Chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA; and
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted; and
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary; and
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance; and
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities; and
      6.   The provisions of Subsections
8-10-6B and
8-10-8B of this Chapter shall still be met; and
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway; and
      8.   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses; and
      10.   All other required State and Federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
   B.   The Director of Community Development shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of Section
8-10-9 of this Chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage; and
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant will acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or historic structure as defined in Section
8-10-2 of this Chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of Subsections A and B of this Section, subject to the conditions
that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
§ 8-10-12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   A.   The degree of flood protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   B.   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes.
   C.   This Chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   D.   This Chapter does not create liability on the part of the Village of
Elk Grove Village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from reliance on this Chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
§ 8-10-13 PENALTY.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days’ notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The Village of Elk Grove Village may make application to the Circuit
Court for an injunction requiring conformance with this Chapter or make such
other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this
Chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense;
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues;
      4.   The Village of Elk Grove Village shall record a notice of violation
on the title to the property.
   B.   The Director of Community Development shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and,
therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      1.   The Director of Community Development is authorized to issue an
order requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order
shall be in writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance and shall order
the action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work
order. The stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Village of Elk Grove Village from
taking such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
§ 8-10-14 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   A.   This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   B.   Where this Chapter and other ordinance, easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   C.   This Chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution
which was adopted to meet the National Flood Insurance Program regulations, but
is not intended to repeal the resolution which the Village of Elk Grove Village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program.
CHAPTER 11: LAND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
8-11-1   Purpose and Scope
   
8-11-2   Definition
   
8-11-3   Plat Approval and Compliance Required
   
8-11-4   Division of Lands Without Platting
   
8-11-5   Approval of One Lot Subdivisions
   
8-11-6   Lands Subject to Flooding
   
8-11-7   Acceptance of Dedicated Public Ways and Public Utilities
   
8-11-8   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   
8-11-9   Amendments
   
8-11-10   Enforcement
   
8-11-11   Penalties
Article A. Procedure for Subdivision Approval 
   
8-11A-1   Processing Responsibilities of Village Officials
   
8-11A-2   Subdivision Plat Approval Procedures
Article B. Subdivision Design and Required Improvements
   
8-11B-1   Minimum Standards
   
8-11B-1-1   Standards of Design
   
8-11B-1-2   Required Improvements
   
8-11B-2   Time for Completion of Certain Improvements
   
8-11B-3   Guarantee of Improvements; Letter of Credit
   
8-11B-4   Inspections
   
8-11B-5   Variances
§ 8-11-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   For the purpose of present and future development of the Village and for the
promotion of the public health and safety, comfort and welfare of persons
living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereinafter contained which shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands
lying within the corporate limits of the Village as now or hereafter existing
or within the area of jurisdiction of the Village Plan Commission as now or
hereafter established under the provisions of the statutes of the State of
Illinois are hereby provided as part of the Comprehensive Plan of the Village.
(See Chapter 2 of this Title.)
§ 8-11-2 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the word “subdivision” shall mean the
dividing of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts or sites for the
purpose, either immediate or future, of sale or building development or a
resubdivision for any such purpose.
§ 8-11-3 PLAT APPROVAL AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be valid nor entitled to record unless and
until the same has been approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees in
accordance with the procedure hereinafter provided, and no plat of a
subdivision shall be approved without compliance with the standards of design
and improvements required as hereinafter set forth.
§ 8-11-4 DIVISION OF LANDS WITHOUT PLATTING.
   No lot or tract of land located within the Village or within the area of
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission and which contains an area of more than
one-half (1/2) acre shall be divided or redivided in any manner into two (2) or
more lesser tracts for building site purposes without subdivision or
resubdividing and platting such tract in the manner provided by the statutes of
the State of Illinois.
§ 8-11-5 APPROVAL OF ONE LOT SUBDIVISIONS.
   When there is presented to the Mayor and Board of Trustees for approval a
plat of subdivision or resubdivision creating one lot, and after consideration
thereof and recommendation thereon by the Director of Community Development, is
of the opinion that the intent and purpose of this Chapter are not violated by
such plat and the construction of the improvements herein required cannot be
reasonably enforced, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may waive the application
or enforce the provisions of this Chapter and approve such plat without
requiring further procedure.
§ 8-11-6 LANDS SUBJECT TO FLOODING.
   The development of lands subject to flooding or which are otherwise deemed
to be included in a Federal or a State floodway, floodplain or flood fringe
area shall be in accordance with Chapter 10 of this Title.
§ 8-11-7 ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATED PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   If any plat of subdivision contains public streets or thoroughfares which
are therein dedicated as such, whether located within the corporate limits of
the Village or outside thereof or contains existing limits, the approval of the
plat by the Mayor and Board of Trustees or the subsequent annexation of the
property to the Village shall not constitute an acceptance by the Village of
such streets or thoroughfares nor of the improvements constructed or installed
thereon or therein, irrespective of any acts by any officer, agent or employee
of the Village with respect to such streets or improvements. The acceptance of
such streets, thoroughfares, public improvements and public utilities shall be
made only by the adoption of a resolution by the Mayor and Board of Trustees
after there has been filed with the Village Clerk a certificate by the Director
of Community Development certifying that all improvements required to be
constructed or installed in or upon such streets or thoroughfares in connection
with the approval of the plat of subdivision by the Village Board have been
fully completed and the construction or installation thereof has been approved
and said improvements meet the design and operating standards and requirements
of the Village and other agencies including the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago and Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   No such resolution will be adopted unless the developer deposits with the
Village a corporate surety bond whereby a bonding company (with assets
exceeding $10,000,000.00 and authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois) guarantees maintenance, repair and replacement by the developer of
said public improvements which deteriorate or fail to meet performance or
operating standards during the bond term or any penalties which may be incurred
as a result thereof; said bond to be in an amount of 10% of the engineer’s
opinion of cost to construct the public improvement, but not less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and as recommended by the Director of Community
Development for a term not less than two (2) years with a termination date not
in the months of November, December, January, February, March or April,
together with an affidavit by the developer that said street will not be used
by it, its contractors or contract purchasers for construction traffic and that
it will advise all concerned.
   Prior to any maintenance, repair or replacement being performed by the
developer during the bond period, it shall notify the Village Manager twenty-
four (24) hours prior to the doing of the work and obtain approval of the
Director of Community Development as to the nature and manner of work to be
done. The Director of Community Development or an arbitrator selected by said
Director and the bonding company, in the case of disputed approval to the
effect that all maintenance work has been properly done, shall be a necessary
condition to discharging parties under the bond and it shall so provide.
§ 8-11-8 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to diminish threats to public
health and safety, reduce property damage and prevent the despoliation of the
environment by regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of developments and other activities which disturb or break the
topsoil or otherwise result in the movement of earth on land situated in the
Village.
   B.   Application of Provisions: Soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures meeting the criteria and requirements established herein are required
for the following:
      1.   All subdivisions and/or developments having an area of one acre or
more;
      2.   Any lot or area regardless of size if deemed necessary by the
Director of Community Development in situations where property damage or
despoliation develops or is likely to occur.
   C.   Specifications: All design and construction shall be done in accordance
with the latest edition of the standards contained in the “Illinois Urban
Manual and Erosion Sediment Control Best Management Practice Manual” prepared
by the Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Districts.
   D.   Design and Operation Standards and Requirements: The following rules
shall govern the design and construction of land improvements with respect to
soil erosion and sedimentation control.
      1.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be provided to
prevent the transportation of sediment from the site by a storm event of ten
(10) year frequency or less.
      2.   Prior to the commencement of stripping or grading operations,
sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt trays or other
appropriate control measures shall be installed and maintained at points of
storm water outflow from the site.
      3.   The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any given
time during development.
      4.   Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or other
nonviable cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during development.
      5.   Permanent, final plant covering or structures shall be installed no
later than thirty (30) days after completion of final grading of any part of
the site, unless otherwise approved by the Director of Community Development.
   E.   Submittal Requirements: Accompanying the final engineering plans of the
subdivision, there shall be furnished the following information and data, in
addition to that required by Section
8-11B-1-2 of this Chapter:
      1.   Topographic map, drawn at no greater than one foot (1') contour
intervals, portraying clearly the drainage pattern of the area and showing the
location of existing structures, utilities, bodies of water, drainage
facilities, vegetative cover, paved areas and other significant natural or
manmade features on the site and adjacent land within approximately one hundred
feet (100') of the site boundaries;
      2.   Development plan showing areas of excavation, grading and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades, provisions for storm drainage; and areas to
be paved, covered, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized or left
undisturbed;
      3.   An erosion and sedimentation control plan indicating:
         a.   Erosion and sedimentation control measures to be employed
throughout all phases of construction and after completion of development of
the site;
         b.   Types of sod or seeding mixture and rate, expected dates of
sodding or seeding, ground preparation, type and rate of fertilizer application
and kind and qualify of mulching for both temporary and permanent vegetative
control measures;
         c.   Appropriate calculations used in sizing and determining the scope
of the plan;
         d.   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities;
         e.   Identification of the person(s) or entity which will have legal
responsibility for maintenance of erosion control structures and measures after
construction of the development is completed.
      4.   Schedule of site development operations including stripping and
clearing, rough grading, installation of public improvements, building
construction, final grading and landscaping. The schedule shall identify the
expected date or dates of commencement of clearing, installation of temporary
sediment control measures, installation of storm water drainage facilities,
street paving, parking lot paving and planting of permanent vegetative cover.
The schedule shall indicate the estimated duration of exposure of cleared
areas;
      5.   The name, if known at the time of submittal, of the contractor(s)
responsible for the installation of the control measures.
   F.   Maintenance: Persons carrying out the control measures under this
Section and all subsequent owners of property where such measures have been
taken shall maintain all permanent erosion control measures, structures,
plantings and other protective devices.
   G.   Inspections: Director of Community Development or their representative
shall make inspections of the site while construction of the development is in
progress. Where it is found by inspection that conditions are not substantially
as stated or shown in the approved development plan, erosion and sedimentation
control plan and schedule of site development operations, the Director of
Community Development may stop further work until deficient conditions are
corrected.
   H.   Nonliability of the Village: This Section shall not create liability on
the part of the Village nor any officer or employee thereof for any condition
or damage which may result from reliance on this Section or on any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
§ 8-11-9 AMENDMENTS.
   The Plan Commission (see Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code) shall, from time
to time, prepare and recommend, in writing, to the Mayor and Board of Trustees
such changes or additions to the provisions and regulations herein contained
for subdivision control as the Plan Commission may deem necessary or advisable.
Such changes or additions shall become effective after their adoption by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees by its passage of an amendment to this Chapter.
§ 8-11-10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director of Community Development shall be the enforcer of this Chapter
and it shall be their duty to enforce the provisions hereof. The Director of
Community Development may call upon any department or official of the Village
to furnish them with such information and assistance as they may deem necessary
for the observance of enforcement of this Chapter, and it shall be the duty of
such department or official to furnish such information and assistance whenever
required.
§ 8-11-11 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   In addition to any penalty as above set forth, the Village may proceed by
injunction in any appropriate branch of the Circuit Court to enjoin the
continuation of any construction undertaken in violation of a stop-work order
or a directive of the Director of Community Development.
**** ARTICLE A. PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL ****
§ 8-11A-1 PROCESSING RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   A.   Village Manager: The Village Manager is to:
      1.   Coordinate and monitor all steps in the process and to keep the
Mayor and Board of Trustees informed;
      2.   Review, in consultation with the appropriate Village department
heads, the proposed subdivision and public improvements for compatibility with
existing conditions and impact on municipal services.
   B.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk is to maintain the official file of
formal documents, to secure signatures as required and to record the final plat
of subdivision.
   C.   Director of Community Development: The Director of Community
Development is to review all supporting documents submitted with the final plat
to assure that they are in accordance with Village standards and sound
engineering practice.
   D.   Plan Commission: The Plan Commission is to review the proposed
development in terms of the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map and zoning
classification with special emphasis given to traffic patterns, preservation of
natural resources, location of open space and stormwater management practices,
location of recreational facilities and schools, housing types and harmony of
development with bordering sections of the Village and bordering communities.
   E.   Mayor and Board of Trustees: The Mayor and Board of Trustees is to act
on the recommendation of the Plan Commission by either approving or denying the
request for subdivision; however, one lot/single use subdivision need not be
reviewed by the Plan Commission.
§ 8-11A-2 SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   A.   Preliminary Plat Phase:
      1.   All preliminary plats of subdivision and their required number of
copies (15) are to be submitted to the Village Manager or their designee with a
letter of transmittal. Incomplete inquiries will be returned to the developer
for their action.
      2.   The Village Manager or their designee will forward one copy of the
preliminary plat and all application/general information to the Village Clerk
and all operating departments.
      3.   All departments, after reviewing the material, will submit to the
Village Manager or their designee a written report of their findings and a
detailed account of additional information their department feels is still
needed.
      4.   The Village Manager or their designee will compile a consolidated
report of the departments’ findings and will submit this report along with the
plat and accompanying information to the Plan Commission for its approval or
disapproval.
      5.   The Plan Commission shall:
         a.   If the plat as submitted is approved, officially stamp and sign
the plat and return to the Village Manager or their designee;
         b.   If the plat as submitted is not acceptable, return it to the
Village Manager or their designee with a written communication indicating what
further action or information is needed by the developer.
      6.   The Village Manager or their designee shall:
         a.   If the Plan Commission approves the plat, return an approved copy
along with a copy of the final plat check list to the petitioner with a letter
of transmittal advising that the preliminary plat is approved and that a final
plat must be submitted within six (6) months or as otherwise extended by the
Director of Community Development in substantial accordance with the approved
preliminary plat. If the Director of Community Development determines that the
final plat is in substantial conformance with the preliminary plat as approved
by the Plan Commission, the final plat shall be presented to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees for consideration in accordance with Subsection
8-11-A-2B of this Section.
         b.   If the Plan Commission rejects the plat, advise the petitioner of
what revisions or additional information is needed for reconsideration by the
Village.
   B.   Final Plat Phase:
      1.   All final plats of subdivision and their required number of copies
(15) are to be submitted to the Village Manager or their designee with a letter
of transmittal. Incomplete inquiries will be returned to the developer for
their action.
      2.   The Village Manager or their designee will forward one copy of the
final plat, application/general information, to the Village Clerk and all
operating departments. Preliminary engineering and supporting documents shall
be sent to the Director of Community Development.
      3.   All department heads, after reviewing the material, will submit to
the Village Manager a written report of their findings.
      4.   The Village Manager or their designee will compile a consolidated
report of the department heads’ findings and will submit this report along with
the plat to the Plan Commission for its review in preparing a recommendation to
the Village Board.
      5.   The Plan Commission shall:
         a.   If the plat as submitted is approved, officially stamp the plat
and forward to the Mayor and Board of Trustees through the Village Manager or
their designee;
         b.   If the plat as submitted is not acceptable, return it to the
Village Manager or their designee with a written communication indicating what
action or information is needed by the developer.
      6.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall:
         a.   Approve the plat of subdivision and authorize the Mayor and
Village Clerk to sign the plat for and in the name of the Village and cause
same to be recorded in the office of the county recorder by the Village Clerk
and thereafter filed in the office of the Village Clerk; or
         b.   Deny the request for subdividing land and direct the Village
Manager to so advise the petitioner.
      7.   If the Village Board has approved the plat of subdivision and caused
same to be recorded, the Village Manager may authorize construction to begin
upon approval of the final engineering plans by the Director of Community
Development, receipt of the irrevocable letter of credit or guarantee as
required by Section
8-11B-3 of this Chapter and receipt of the plan review and applicable
construction fees.
**** ARTICLE B. SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 8-11B-1 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following requirements are hereby adopted as the minimum standards of
design of a subdivision and of improvements required to be constructed or
installed therein.
§ 8-11B-1-1 STANDARDS OF DESIGN.
   A.   Streets and Alleys:
      1.   Streets: A public street or streets shall be provided to afford
convenient access to all property within the subdivision. No private street or
thoroughfare shall be permitted, except by special permit.
      The proposed street system shall extend existing adjoining streets unless
the extension thereof would not be practical.
      Where, in the opinion of the Plan Commission, it is desirable to provide
for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be extended
by dedication to the boundary of such property.
      2.   Alleys: Alleys shall be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts
intended for business, commercial or industrial use and multiple-family
building use but shall not be provided in residential blocks. If the subdivider
produces evidence that other access streets are available and that an alley is
not required for loading, unloading and fire protection, then this provision
providing for alleys may be waived upon the recommendation of the Plan
Commission to the Village Board.
      3.   Right-of-Way Widths: The minimum width of the right-of-way of a
street, alley or thoroughfare, measured between the lines of property abutting
upon the right-of-way, shall not be less than the following, except Landmeier
Road east of Tonne Road shall be eighty feet (80').
         a.   Major streets, being streets used or to be used by fast or heavy
traffic and designated as such by the Village Board, shall be ninety feet
(90').
         b.   Streets in the industrial areas shall be sixty feet (60') with
twenty-five foot (25') utility easements on each side.
         c.   Other nonresidential streets shall be sixty-eight feet (68').
         d.   Residential streets shall be sixty feet (60').
         e.   Cul-de-sacs, which are permanent dead-end streets, with permanent
turnaround having an inside diameter of not less than on hundred feet (100').
Minimum width at the entrance to the turnaround street portion shall be sixty
feet (60'). Maximum length shall be four hundred feet (400').
         f.   Alleys, to serve business areas where required, shall be twenty-
four feet (24').
         g.   Alleys, to serve residential blocks where required, shall be
twenty feet (20').
         In the case of the extension of an existing adjoining right-of-way
having a width less than the minimum requirement, the Plan Commission may
approve the extension thereof at the same width. The entire right-of-way shall
be provided where any part of the subdivision is on both sides of the right-of-
way.
         When the subdivision is located on only one side of the existing
right-of-way, which is less than the required width, the subdivider shall
dedicate an additional right-of-way to meet the requirement, but not exceeding
one-half (1/2) of the total required width.
         In the case where topography or other conditions make dedication of a
street or part thereof of the required minimum width impractical, the Plan
Commission may modify the above requirements. It may also increase the minimum
width subject to approval by the Village Board.
      4.   Street Grades: Grades of major streets shall not exceed seven
percent (7%). Grades of other streets shall not exceed ten percent (10%).
      5.   Curves in Streets: Curves in streets shall be permitted, providing
no curve shall be greater than that approved by traffic engineers as reasonably
safe for traffic at the particular location of the curve.
      6.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one
hundred twenty-five feet (125') shall not be permitted if the same can be
reasonably avoided.
      7.   Street Names: Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or
continuation of existing streets already named shall bear the name of such
existing streets. In no case shall the name for proposed streets duplicate
existing street names, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue,
road, boulevard, drive, place or court or abbreviation thereof, cul-de-sacs
excepted.
   B.   Blocks:
      1.   Blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet (400') nor more than
one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length, except as the Plan Commission
considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired features of the
street pattern.
      2.   In blocks one thousand feet (1,000') or more in length, the Plan
Commission may require a public crosswalk for pedestrian travel of not less
than five feet (5') in width to extend entirely across the block at the
location deemed necessary.
      3.   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots, except
where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographical conditions or
size of the property, in which case, the Plan Commission will approve a single
tier of lots.
   C.   Lots and Setback Lines: Lots and setback lines shall be in conformance
with the Zoning Ordinance.
   D.   Easements: Where no alleys are provided, there shall be dedicated
easements of not less than ten feet (10') in width for poles, wires, conduits,
storm and sanitary sewer, gas, water or other utility pipes or lines along the
rear of each lot and long the side lot lines where necessary. The easements
shall be so laid out that a proper continuity may be had for such utilities
from lot to lot and from block to block. No structure shall be constructed upon
the easements.
   E.   Public Lands: In those instances where a subdivider seeks the
annexation of land to the Village, which land is to be used for residential
purposes, they shall accompany their petition for annexation with a tentative
plat of subdivision, which tentative plat of subdivision, in addition to all
other requirements provided herein, shall locate and designate thereon lands
which the subdivider proposes to dedicate, together with the legal description
of same. In the event that the subdivider proposes a series of annexations and
for this reason cannot determine the exact land which they propose to dedicate,
they shall attach to their tentative plat of subdivision a letter stating what
amount of land in acres they are willing to dedicate if the Village should
agree to annex the property in question, for what public purpose they desire to
make the land dedication and give the general location of the land which they
propose to dedicate.
   The Plan Commission, in its deliberations leading to its recommendations as
to annexation, shall consider the following factors.
      1.   Public land dedication is to be equal to ten percent (10%) of the
area sought to be annexed, exclusive of rights-of-way, for major streets to be
dedicated to the Village.
      2.   That the purpose for requiring public land dedication is to offset
governmental burden generated by the annexation.
      3.   The needs of the various governmental taxing bodies, as well as the
needs of the community, which has or will service the area to be annexed and
the expressions of the various public bodies, governmental agencies and not-
for-profit organizations and associations servicing the public needs in the
area in question.
      4.   That all lands dedicated hereunder shall be first conveyed by deed
to the Village which in turn shall reconvey or retain same in accordance with a
written agreement between itself and the subdivider, which agreement has been
approved as being in accordance with the Village Plan. (See Chapter 2 of this
Title.) Any reconveyance shall be made only to a Municipal corporation, park
district or school district or to such not-for-profit corporation as approved
by the subdivider.
§ 8-11B-1-2 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   A.   Storm and Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   Storm Drains: An adequate system of storm water drainage designed
for a 10-year return frequency rain shall be constructed and installed,
consisting of pipes, tiles, manholes, inlets and other necessary facilities
that will adequately drain the subdivision and protect roadway pavements and
will prevent the accumulation of storm water at any place under normal
conditions. Open ditches shall be prohibited in all residential zoning areas.
Back yard swales are permitted in residential zoning areas subject to the
following regulations.
         a.   Maximum and minimum slopes and general design criteria of the
Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s “Minimum Property Requirements” will be acceptable except as
herein modified.
         b.   No continuous swales shall have a length exceeding six hundred
feet (600').
         c.   Minimum grade of the flow line shall be one percent (1%).
         d.   At no point in the swale shall the flow line be more than three
feet (3') below the finished grade of the topsoil at the foundation of the
house opposite the swale.
         e.   No change in alignment of a back yard swale shall exceed forty
five degrees (45°).
      2.   Open Ditches: Open ditches are allowed for rear yard drainage in the
industrial and commercial areas if they conform to the following regulations.
         a.   The bottom of the ditch shall be lined with a five inch (5")
thick concrete invert minimum of three feet (3'0") wide. Two (2) number 6
reinforcing rods are to be equally spaced for the entire length of the invert.
         b.   The grade of the invert shall be designed to provide a velocity
of flow between three feet (3') and five feet (5') per second.
         c.   The sides of the ditch shall not exceed a two to one (2:1) slope.
         d.   All side slopes shall be sodded from the invert to the top of the
slope.
         e.   Any alignment change shall require concrete slope protection on
the side slopes of the ditch or other erosion control measure as approved by
the Director of Community Development.
   B.   Storm Water Management:
      1.   The Watershed Management Ordinance (WMO) as adopted by the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago (MWRD) on May 1,
2014 and as subsequently amended, and the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater
and Floodplain Ordinance adopted September 24, 1991 and as subsequently amended
shall govern the design of any improvement with respect to storm water
management within Cook County and DuPage County respectively in addition to the
following.
         a.   Streets, blocks, depths of lots, parks and other public grounds
shall be located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize
natural streams, channels and detention basins including, wherever possible,
the larger streams and floodplains within parks or other public grounds.
         b.   Storm water from a 100-year return frequency storm must be stored
and/or transported from any development in such a manner that no damage results
from flooding.
         c.   A combination of storage and controlled release of storm water
runoff is required for all non-residential developments, regardless of size,
and for residential developments exceeding five (5) acres in area.
         d.   The release rate of storm water from all developments requiring
detention shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate from the area in its
natural undeveloped state.
         Because of the flat conditions of the land in this area, channel
configurations cut by nature are generally unable to handle the runoff from
high intensity rainfalls and results in floodplain storage or spreading of
runoff over the land areas during the larger storm periods. In order not to
increase the runoff from such areas after development, the release rate must be
limited to the carrying capacity of these natural channels.
         In no instance shall a release rate greater than two tenths cubic feet
per second (0.2 cfs) per acre be used.
         e.   Drainage systems shall have adequate capacity to bypass through
the development the flow from all upstream areas for a storm of design
frequency assuming that the land is in a fully developed state under present
zoning or zoning proposed under a Comprehensive Plan. The bypass flow rate
shall be computed utilizing a runoff coefficient of not less than 0.35. An
allowance will be made for upstream detention when such upstream detention and
release rate has been approved by the Director of Community Development and
that evidence of its construction can be shown.
         f.   The live detention storage to be provided will be calculated on
the basis of the 100-year frequency rainfall as published by the Illinois State
Water Survey, Bulletin 75, for this area and as subsequently amended. The
detention volume required will be that necessary to handle the runoff of a 100-
year rainfall, for any and all durations, from the fully developed drainage
area tributary to the reservoir, less that volume discharged during the same
duration at the approved release rate.
         g.   Sharply meandering streams or channels may be partly straightened
and minor changes made in other channels, subject to approval of the Director
of Community Development; provided the floodway dimensions of the stream or
channel are maintained, and the volume of flood water storage outside the
floodway is not reduced.
         h.   The smaller uppermost reaches of drainage channels and swales
forming the natural drainage system near the watershed divide may be relocated
or eliminated and incorporated into the planned system of storm sewers upon a
showing that the system is adequate and can safely handle the flood water
runoff following the heavier rain storms.
         i.   Storm sewer outfalls shall be so designed, by reason of elevation
of the invert that, when the receiving stream is in full flood, the storm sewer
will continue to drain the area it is designed to serve at a uniform rate.
         j.   Cross-sections and grades of streets designed as channels shall
be designed to temporarily store and convey the overflow from storm sewers and
over-the-curb runoff and be provided with adequate outlets for safe disposal of
such overflow. The street cross-section shall provide a lot grade for the
finished floor of each adjoining building at least two feet (2') higher than
the crown of the pavement, and the minimum sill elevation of openings in the
outer walls of such buildings shall be at least two and one-half feet (2.5')
above the crown elevation.
         k.   The crown of street pavements hereafter built adjoining or near
streams, flood water runoff channels or detention basins shall be not lower
than the established high-water elevation plus two feet (2'), in the case of
major streets, and plus one foot (1') in a 100-year frequency storm.
         l.   Waterway openings of bridges and culverts hereafter built over
streams of flood water runoff channels shall be designed with a waterway
opening large enough to handle the flow from a 100-year frequency storm.
         m.   Construction, filling or other similar physical occupation of the
floodplain as defined by the Department of the Interior United States
Geological Survey, which is otherwise prohibited by this Subsection, may be
permitted if adequate compensatory storage volume is provided. This shall be
accomplished by developing in the existing floodplain excavated space below the
high-water elevation in an amount equal to the flood storage capacity preempted
by the proposed construction. In the case of streams and channels, such
excavation shall be made opposite or immediately upstream from the area to be
filled. It shall be the duty of the property owner to conduct such excavation
in a manner consistent with the other provisions of this Subsection and may be
done only after the approval by the Director of Community Development has been
granted. Approval of the Director of Community Development will be contingent
upon the property owner’s ability to demonstrate that the compensatory storage
will be adequate and satisfactory for its intended purpose.
      2.   Drainage Plan: A comprehensive drainage plan must be submitted to
the Director of Community Development which incorporates the aforementioned
rules and shall provide or be accompanied by maps or other descriptive material
showing the following:
         a.   The extent and area of each watershed tributary to the drainage
channels in the subdivision;
         b.   The street storm sewers and other storm drains to be built, the
basis of their design, the outfall and outlet locations and elevations,
receiving stream or channel and its high-water elevation and the functioning of
the drains during high-water conditions;
         c.   The parts of the proposed street system where pavements are
planned to be depressed sufficiently to convey or temporarily store overflow
from storm sewers and over-the-curb runoff resulting from the heavier rain
storms and the outlets for such overflow;
         d.   Existing streams and flood water runoff channels to be
maintained, enlarged, altered otherwise and eliminated and new channels to be
constructed, their locations, cross-sections and profiles;
         e.   Existing culverts and bridges, drainage areas, elevation and
adequacy of waterway openings and new culverts and bridges to be built, their
materials, elevations, waterway openings and basis of design;
         f.   Existing detention ponds and basins to be maintained, enlarged,
altered otherwise and new ponds or basins to be built with dams and their
design.
      3.   Construction Requirements for Detention Ponds:
         a.   Detention Ponds Containing Permanent Water:
            (1)   Detention reservoirs containing permanent water must have a
water area of at least one-half (1/2) acre and a minimum depth of approximately
ten feet (10') over at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total area. The
remaining lake area must have an average depth of at least five feet (5') and
should have no extensive shallow areas.
            (2)   In excavated lakes, the underwater side slopes in the lakes
must be stable. In the case of valley storage, natural slopes may be considered
to be stable.
            (3)   A safety ledge four feet (4') to six feet (6') in width is
required and must be installed in all lakes approximately thirty inches (30")
to thirty-six inches (36") below the permanent water level. In addition, a
ledge twelve inches (12") to eighteen inches (18") above the permanent water
line must be provided. The slope between the two (2) ledges must be stable and
of a material which will prevent erosion due to wave action such as stone or
rip rap.
            (4)   A safety ramp exit from the lake is required in all cases and
should have a minimum width of twenty feet (20') and exit slope of six
horizontal to one vertical (6:1). The ramp must be of a material that will
prevent its deterioration due to vehicle use and/or wave action.
            (5)   Periodic maintenance is required in lakes to control weed and
larval growth. The reservoir must also be designed to provide for the easy
removal of sediment which will accumulate in the lake during periods of
reservoir operation. A means of maintaining the designed water level of the
lake during prolonged periods of dry weather is also required. One suggested
method is to have a water hydrant near the pond site.
         b.   Detention Ponds Containing Permanent Water and Dry Detention
Ponds:
            (1)   All excavated spoils must be spread so as to provide for
aesthetic and recreational features such as sledding hills, sport fields, etc.
Slopes of six horizontal to one vertical (6:1) are required except where
recreation uses call for steeper slopes. Even these features must have a slope
no greater than three horizontal to one vertical (3:1) for safety, minimal
erosion, stability and ease of maintenance.
            (2)   Safety screens must be provided for any pipe or opening to
prevent children or large animals from crawling into the structures. A maximum
opening of six inches (6") is required.
            (3)   In valley storage reservoirs, an emergency spillway or other
provision must be provided to allow for bypassing flood flows during periods
when the design capacity of the reservoir and outlet has been exceeded. This
spillway must be of such a design that its operation is automatic and does not
require manual attention.
            (4)   Sod or other suitable vegetative cover as approved by the
Director of Community Development must be provided throughout the entire
reservoir area.
            (5)   Debris and trash removal and other necessary maintenance must
be performed after each storm to assure continued operation in conformance to
the design.
         c.   Dry Detention Ponds:
            (1)   Dry detention ponds must have an underdrain system to
minimize the wetness of the bottom so that water does not remain standing in
the bottom thereby harboring insects and limiting the potential use of the
reservoir. The underdrain system could empty by gravity into the wet well of a
pump station or to the receiving stream directly.
            (2)   The dry detention pond must be designed to serve multi-
purpose functions. Recreational facilities, aesthetic qualities, etc., as well
as flood water storage must be considered in planning the reservoir.
      4.   Responsibility for Maintenance of Detention Ponds:
         a.   The responsibility for maintenance during construction and
thereafter shall be the responsibility of the land developer/owner.
         b.   Storm water detention and retention basins may be donated to the
Village or other unit of government designated by the Village for ownership and
permanent maintenance, providing:
            (1)   The facility has been designed and constructed according to
Village requirements enumerated above;
            (2)   All improvements have been constructed, approved and accepted
by the Village for the land area served by the drainage basin;
            (3)   Detention ponds containing permanent water are located within
a tract of land consisting of fifteen (15) acres or more, of which thirty
percent (30%) of the area is above the high-water line, and includes a body of
water of ten (10) surface acres or more, of which fifty percent (50%) is to
have a minimum depth of ten feet (10'); four inch (4") size rip rap to be
provided three feet (3') below and three feet (3') above normal water line; all
slopes between the rip rap and high-water line are to be sodded and the
remaining land area is to be hydroseeded; are equipped with electrically-driven
aeration devices to maintain proper aerobic conditions to sustain aquatic life;
have a four foot (4') wide crushed limestone walkway at the high water line
entirely around the body of water; are situated to permit public access two
hundred feet (200') wide and not less than two hundred feet (200') to the high-
water line; and providing further, that the high-water line is not closer than
thirty five feet (35') to any property line.
            (4)   Dry detention ponds are located on a tract of land consisting
of two (2) acres or more of land, including a minimum bottom area of two
hundred seventy-five feet by two hundred seventy five feet (275' x 275') or two
hundred feet by three hundred seventy-five feet (200' x 375'); maximum side
slopes of five to one (5:1); all slopes are to be sodded to the high-water
line; the bottom of the basin and areas above the high-water line are to be
hydroseeded; and providing further, that the high-water line is not closer than
thirty five feet (35') to any property line.
   C.   Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   Public Sewers: A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to render the
same accessible to every lot. Said sanitary sewers shall be designed and
constructed to meet the standards of the Watershed Management Ordinance as
adopted on May 1, 2014 and amended from time to time, by the Metropolitan Water
Reclamation District of Greater Chicago, which is hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference including inflow and infiltration criteria.
   D. Water Supply:
      1.   Water Mains: When located within the service area of a public water
supply system, water distribution mains of not less than eight inches (8") in
diameter shall be constructed throughout all residentially zoned property and
not less than twelve inches (12") in diameter in all industrially and
commercially zoned property. All water transmission lines shall be twelve
inches (12") or larger as required by the Director of Community Development.
All water mains shall be installed in such manner as to adequately serve all
lots and tracts within and adjacent to the area for which the water supply
system is to be constructed with connections to the existing public system. All
water system improvements shall be subject to review and approval of the
Director of Community Development.
      2.   Ductile-Iron Pipe Specifications: All pipe and fittings shall be
capable of withstanding an internal working pressure of one hundred fifty (150)
pounds per square inch for two (2) hours. All pipe shall have a modified cement
mortar lining conforming to the requirements of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) specification A.21.4 (American Water Works Association (AWWA)
C-104, Class 52). The exterior of the ductile iron pipe shall be coated with a
layer of arc-sprayed zinc, with a minimum mass of 200 g/m2 of pipe surface
area. The zinc coating system shall fully conform to ISO 8179-1. A standard
finishing layer of asphaltic coating shall be applied to protect the zinc
coating in accordance with AWWA C-151. Section of water main pipe shall be
connected by means of push-on joints conforming to the requirements of ANSI
A.21.51 (AWWA C-151.) All fasteners shall be stainless steel Type 304. Copies
of the specifications are available at the Department of Public Works.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants, as approved by the Director of
Community Development, shall be installed throughout the entire water system so
that there is a hydrant located at all street intersections and intermediate
hydrants evenly spaced so the interval between hydrants is not more than three
hundred feet (300') of travel. All fire hydrants shall have an eight and one-
half inch (8 1/2") barrel and shall be provided with two (2) two and one-half
inch (2 1/2") hose connections and one four and one-half inch (4 1/2") steamer
connection and shall be equipped with an individual auxiliary valve. The
threads on the hose connection shall be national standard thread. Hydrants
shall be set plumb with the center of the steamer connection set eighteen
inches (18") above the finish grade. The base of the hydrant shall be set a
minimum of eight inches (8") from the excavation level and be set on concrete
blocks. There shall be a minimum of three-fourths (3/4) cubic yards of gravel
with a minimum screen size of three-fourths inches (3/4") placed at and around
the base of the hydrant to ensure proper drainage. All hydrants shall be set
within a minimum of two feet six inches (2'6") from back of curb to center of
hydrant and a maximum setting of seven feet (7') from back of curb to the
center of the hydrant.
      All hydrants shall be individually flow-tested and meet the capacity
indicated by the following table. Hydrants shall be painted to provide a high
level of daytime visibility and nighttime reflectivity. Hydrant bands shall be
color coded in accordance with the following table:
[IMAGE]
      4.   Valves: Valves shall be installed at eight hundred feet (800')
intervals and the system shall be designed and valves installed so that, with
any one section shut down, the rest of the system will maintain an adequate
water supply.
      Main water line gate valve boxes, shut-off boxes and service boxes are to
be located in the lawn area between curb line and sidewalk line where possible
and installed at final finished lawn grade. Main gate valves installed in
streets, roadways, driveways or sidewalks are to be installed in a standard
forty-eight inch (48") precast manhole in accordance with Village
specifications; all valves and shut-off devices shall be protected from frost.
      5.   Customer Water Service Lines: Customer water service lines shall be
constructed to connect with the utility service mains located within any street
or thoroughfare to serve each adjoining lot, tract or building site; such
service lines shall extend from the main to a point beyond the outside curb
lines of proposed roadway or street pavement.
      All customer service lines shall be located at the approximate center
line of each lot.
      6.   As-Built Engineering Drawings: Prior to donation of public
improvements to the Village by the developer and upon completion of
construction of all subdivision improvements such as streets, storm drainage
and utility mains and lines, including water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer,
the developer shall provide the Village with two (2) complete sets of as-built
engineering drawings. The drawings shall include a complete bill of material of
all the improvements.
   E.   Availability of Village-Owned Water and Sewer Facilities: The Village
shall make its water and sewer facilities available to all real estate now or
hereafter located therein and:
      1.   The property owner(s) shall pay connection charges as provided in
Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code;
      2.   The property owner(s) shall provide water and sewer extension mains
and water meters in accordance with the provisions of this Code and as deemed
necessary by the Director of Community Development (see diagrams following
Subsection
8-11B-1-2A1);
      3.   Subdividers and developers shall:
         a.   Construct and donate to the Village all extension mains, water
distribution systems, including transmission mains made necessary by such
extension, water meters, meter installation materials, sewage collection
systems, including interceptor sewers made necessary by said extensions of the
sewage collection systems and lift stations, if any;
         b.   Construct same in accordance with this Code relative thereto and
in a manner satisfactory to the Director of Community Development;
         c.   Pay all fees per acre designated at the time of annexation at the
time the developer or owner(s) seeks a water connection.
      4.   That the Village shall in all instances determine the appropriate
sizing of mains and required capacity of proposed water and sewer facilities
necessary to serve any proposed subdivision.
      5.   If the Village desires to increase the size or capacity of any
portion or all of the sanitary sewer or water system proposed by the subdivider
or developer in order to provide service to areas not located with or beyond
the limits of said subdivision, the cost thereof in excess of the cost of the
subdivider’s or developer’s proposed installation shall be refunded by the
Village to the subdivider or developer on the following basis.
         a.   Prior to construction, the subdivider or developer and the
Village shall agree upon the location and acreage of the land which the excess
capacity is designed to serve and shall agree on the total excess cost in
dollars.
         b.   Any subdivider, developer or property owner(s) in the area, as
established according to Subsection E5a of this Section, for which the said
excess capacity has been provided, shall pay to the Village the dollar cost of
such excess capacity in the same proportion that the acreage of said
subdivision, development or land bears to the total acreage for which the
excess capacity was provided; whereupon, the Village shall refund a like amount
to the subdivider or developer providing said excess capacity.
      6.   All persons connecting directly to any Village water and/or sewer
main shall be assessed an inspection fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
connection. (See Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.)
   F.   Street Pavement Standards:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   All street pavements within the Village shall be constructed in
accordance with:
         “Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”, State of
Illinois Department of Transportation issued January 1, 2022, as amended from
time to time;
         “Bureau of Local Roads and Streets Manual”, State of Illinois;
         Department of Transportation issued April 2005, as amended from time
to time.
         b.   Design requirements for the pavement will be related to the
zoning classification of the area adjacent to the subject street.
         c.   A street which divides areas with different zoning
classifications shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
area requiring the higher quality pavement. Any variation of this must have
prior approval of the Director of Community Development.
         d.   Combination concrete curb and gutter is required on all streets.
(See also Subsection
7-2-5-2B of this Code.)
         e.   At the request of the Director of Community Development, a copy
of all design assumptions and computations on which the posed design is based
shall be submitted.
         f.   All pavement shall have a two percent (2%) cross slope.
         g.   Prior to the commencement of any street construction, the
developer shall notify the Director of Community Development at least twenty-
four (24) hours in advance as to the nature of the work being done.
      2.   Pavement Width: The minimum width of the pavement structure, back to
back of curb, shall be as follows:
 
Type of Street         Width  Zoning Classification of Subject Area
Residential            28 ft. R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, A-2
*Residential collector 40 ft. R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, A-2
Light industrial       40 ft. I-1, ITC
Heavy industrial       40 ft. I-2
Business               40 ft. B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, O-T
*A street primarily for through traffic with intersections at grade and
direct access to abutting property and on which geometric design and traffic
control measures are used to expedite the safe movement of traffic.
 
      3.   Pavement Design: All pavement shall be designed in accordance with
the previously referenced standards and manuals of the Department of
Transportation. The design thickness shall be dependent on the soil support
value and the projected traffic factor.
         a.   Subgrade: All subgrade material shall have a minimum California
bearing ratio (CBR) of three (3). Subgrade material having a CBR less than
three (3) shall be removed and replaced with a suitable fill material or the
pavement must be designed to compensate for the soil conditions. The soil
support CBR values selected for use by the designer should represent a minimum
value for the soil to be used.
         b.   Design Criteria: The development of the following minimum
requirements are based on the assumption that all streets have two (2) traffic
lanes. Any variation of this will require the approval of the Director of
Community Development.
            (1)   Bituminous Pavement: The design of all bituminous pavements
shall be based on the minimum structural number for the type of street. The
minimum structural numbers are as follows:
 
Type of Street                Structural Number Zoning Classification of
                                                Subject Area
Residential                   3.00              R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, A-2
Residential                   3.50              R-1, R-2, R-3, A-2
Collector                                       A-1
Light Industrial and Business 3.75              I-1, ITC, O-T, B-1, B-2, B-3,
                                                B-5
Heavy Industrial              4.50              I-2
 
   The following are coefficients to be used for approved pavement structure
materials. The coefficients, when multiplied by the thickness of the materials,
will yield the structural number.
      STRUCTURE MATERIALS
      STRENGTH REQUIREMENTS
      COEFFICIENT
      M.S.
      I.B.R.
      P.S.I.**
      STRUCTURE MATERIALS
      STRENGTH REQUIREMENTS
      COEFFICIENT
      M.S.
      I.B.R.
      P.S.I.**
      Bituminous Surface:
      Road Mix (Class B)
      0.20
      Plant Mix (Class B)
      Liquid Asphalt
      0.22
      Asphalt Cement
      900
      0.30
      Class I
      1700
      0.40
      Base Course:
      Aggregate, Type B
      Uncrushed
      50
      0.10
      Crushed (100%)
      80
      0.13
      Aggregate, Type A
      80
      0.13
      Waterbound Macadam
      110
      0.14
      Cement Aggregate
      650
      0.23
      Pozzolanic Base Course
      Type A
      0.28
      Bituminous Aggregate
      Mixture
      900-1900
      0.24 - 0.33
      Bituminous Mixture
      Class I
      1700+
      0.33
      Portland Cement
      Concrete (new)
      2500+
      0.50
      *Marshall stability
      **7-day design compressive strength
      October 1 shall be the deadline for the installation of pozzolanic base
material; other construction material can be used to November 1 if the weather
allows. Any work done after November 1 shall require a written authorization
from the Director of Community Development. This authorization will in no way
void the property owner’s guarantee on the work done.
      Minimum thickness of Bituminous Surface Course (compacted).
      A minimum of three inches (3.0") surface course will be required on all
pavements with a structural number of 3.0 to 3.99. Pavements with a structural
number of 4.0 to 4.99 will require a four inch (4.0") surface.
            (2)   Concrete Pavement: The design of all concrete pavements shall
be based on the minimum thickness for the type of street. The minimum
thicknesses are as follows:
 
Type of Street                Zoning Classification of      Minimum Thickness
                              Subject Area
Residential                   R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, A-2       6.5 inches
Residential Collector         R-1, R-2, R-3, A-1, A-2       7.0 inches
Light Industrial and Business I-1, ITC, O-T, B-1, B-2, B-3, 7.5 inches
                              B-5
Heavy Industrial              I-2                           9.0 inches
 
            All concrete pavement shall be reinforced. The reinforcement must
conform to the requirements set forth in the Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction.
      4.   Third Lift Requirements: Third lift requirements for flexible street
pavement; concrete streets and all streets installed after June 13, 1972, are
excepted from this requirement.
         a.   All flexible streets to be installed subsequent to April 1, 1968,
in areas either zoned I-1 or I-2 Industrial or B-1, B-2 or B-3 Business or
adjacent thereto shall make provision for a third lift or addition of pavement
to be added to said streets at such time as seventy-five percent (75%) of the
frontage bordering said streets have been improved with buildings or five (5)
years from date of street construction, whichever event shall first occur. The
third lift shall not be added until base failures, if any, in the street are
corrected.
         b.   To insure said additional future pavement and base failure
correction, the developer and owner of the land benefitted by the improvement
shall deposit with the Director of Finance at the time that the street
improvement is installed the cost of a third lift in monies or such securities
as the Village deems acceptable, the amount to be estimated by the Director of
Community Development, plus ten percent (10%) of the cost of the base to
guarantee the necessary base restoration prior to installing third lift. Said
money shall then be utilized by the Village within the time period specified
for the purpose specified. The Village shall have the right to invest said
deposits in U.S. government bonds or such other legal investment as they may
determine proper. All interest earned shall be added to the principal deposited
and may be used for any purpose for which the principal amount could have
lawfully been used. Any monies not used shall be returned to the developer or
their assigns at such time as the third lift is installed.
         c.   Prior to installation of the third lift, all areas of existing
pavement, including base course that, in the opinion of the Director of
Community Development, shall require repair, shall be repaired with the
construction methods and material requirements of the State of Illinois
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, as amended from time
to time.
         d.   Following the repair of the existing pavement, a third lift shall
be added to the existing pavement which shall include priming and resurfacing
with a bituminous concrete surface course, subclass 1-11. All materials,
equipment and construction methods shall be in accordance with the State of
Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction as amended
from time to time. The surface course shall have a compacted thickness of one
inch (1"), except in a three foot (3') wide strip along each side of the
pavement in which the thickness shall be gradually decreased to one-fourth inch
(1/4") at the edge of the pavement.
      5.   Specifications on File: The standards and specifications referred to
in this Subsection F may be reviewed in the office of the Director of Community
Development.
   G.   Alley Pavements: All alleys shall be improved with a roadway consisting
of not less than eight inches (8") of stone or gravel when thoroughly compacted
and two inches (2") of bituminous concrete surface of the following widths:
      1.   Through apartment district blocks, not less than twenty feet (20');
      2.   Through business and industrial blocks, not less than twenty-four
feet (24').
   H.   Curbs and Gutters: A suitable concrete curb and gutter shall be
constructed along the outside lines of all street pavements. Curb and gutter in
residential areas shall have a three inch (3") mountable curb with a twelve
inch (12") gutter flag. Curb and gutter in industrial and commercial areas
shall have a six inch (6") barrier curb with a twelve inch (12") gutter flag,
except at driveway aprons where depressed curb shall be constructed. Depressed
curb shall also be constructed at all sidewalks. Said curbs and gutters shall
be constructed of concrete, three thousand five hundred (3,500) PSI strength at
fourteen (14) days and contain two (2) one-half inch (1/2") metal reinforcing
rods in residential areas, two (2) three-quarter inch (3/4") rods in industrial
and commercial areas and shall be subject to the approval of the Director of
Community Development. Expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") thick shall be
placed at intervals of fifty feet (50') in the curb and where specified by the
Director of Community Development. Two (2) three-quarter inch (3/4") dowels
shall be provided at every expansion joint.
   I.   Sidewalks: If the property subdivided is located within the Village or
immediately adjacent thereto, sidewalks shall be required. Walks without
parkways between street pavement and sidewalks are prohibited. Sidewalks shall
be extended to the curb at “T” intersections adjacent to park sites, commercial
areas, school sites and heavy use areas such as churches and hospitals except
if one of the intersecting streets is a cul-de-sac street, in which case
sidewalks shall be extended to the curb only at school site locations. All
sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the following Elk Grove
Village sidewalk standards: (See Subsection
8-11B-1-2G of this Section.)
      1.   Generally: The work performed under these standards shall consist of
the construction of portland cement concrete sidewalks constructed as described
herein. Such sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet (4") and a
minimum thickness of five inches (5"). Where adjacent sidewalks exist,
sidewalks shall be constructed to meet the grade of such sidewalks or as may be
directed by the Director of Community Development or their representative. The
location of sidewalks and grade of sidewalks, when no adjacent sidewalks exist,
shall be as directed by the Director of Community Development or their
representative.
      2.   Materials: All materials shall conform to the requirements of
Division III, Material Details, as set out in the State of Illinois Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, as amended from time to time.
      3.   Procedures Involving Concrete: Sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete materials of a class as defined in Section 1020 of the State of
Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
supplemental specifications aforesaid. The composition, consistency, mixing,
placing, compacting, finishing and curing of concrete for sidewalks shall be in
accordance with the requirements of the applicable paragraphs of said Section
424 of the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and the
supplemental specifications, except for requirements that may be otherwise
stated herein, which shall take precedence over the standard specifications and
supplemental specifications.
         a.   Proportioning Concrete: The proportions of cement, fine
aggregate, coarse aggregate and water will be determined by the contractor and
shall have the approval of the Director of Community Development before the
work begins so as to produce a workable plastic concrete having a compressive
strength of not less than three thousand and five hundred (3,500) pounds per
square inch when tested by standard methods. The proportions shall include not
less than six (6) bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete. This determination
shall be based upon tests of the aggregates selected by the builder for use in
the work. The quantities of aggregates for each batch of concrete shall be
measured by weight. Delivery tickets shall be furnished to the Village at the
time of pouring, when requested.
         b.   Subgrade Preparation: The subgrade shall be tamped or rolled
until thoroughly compacted and shall be constructed true to grade. The sidewalk
shall be laid upon a base of granular material a minimum of two inches (2") in
thickness. Fill, where required, must be compacted solidly. Materials for fills
shall be gravel or crushed stone and placed and tamped in six inch (6") layers.
The top of all fills shall extend at least one foot (1') beyond the edge of the
walk. Subgrade in cut shall be prepared sufficiently wide to accommodate the
forms. Side slopes shall slope one foot (1') vertical to three feet (3')
horizontal to meet existing ground surface.
         c.   Forms: Side forms shall be of lumber of not less than two inches
(2") nominal thickness and a minimum depth of five inches (5") or of steel of
equal rigidity. No two by four (2" x 4") forms shall be used. They shall be
held securely in place by stakes or braces with the top edge true to line and
grade. The forms for the sidewalk shall be set so that the slab will have a
fall of one inch vertical to four feet horizontal (1":4') from the edge nearest
the property line toward the edge farthest from the property line, except as
may be otherwise directed by the Director of Community Development or their
representative.
         d.   Reinforcing: Reinforcing bars shall be embedded in the concrete
at mid-depth in a longitudinal direction over all existing water or sewer
services or other utilities buried beneath the sidewalk. Three-fourths inch (3/
4") diameter bars each with a minimum length of ten feet (10') shall be
installed over each utility. The bars shall be equally spaced across the width
of the sidewalk.
         Bars shall conform with the current standard specifications for Billet
Steel Concrete Reinforcement Bars of Intermediate Grade A.S.T.M. Serial
Designation A15. Suitable chairs and other holding devices shall be provided to
insure the proper position of the reinforcement.
         e.   Placing and Finishing: After the subgrade has been finished and
prior to placing concrete, the contractor shall notify the Director of
Community Development twenty-four (24) hours prior to pouring. No concrete
shall be placed until the subgrade has been inspected and approved by the
Village.
         The subgrade shall be moistened just before the concrete is placed.
The concrete shall be placed in successive batches for the entire width of the
slab, struck off from one-half inch (1/2") to three-fourths inch (3/4") higher
than the finished slab, tamped until all voids are removed and free mortar
appears on the surface, thoroughly spaded along the edges, struck off to the
true grade and finished to a true and even surface with floats and trowels. The
final troweling shall be done with a steel trowel leaving smooth, even surface.
After the water sheen has disappeared, the surface shall be given a final
finish by brushing with a whitewash brush. The brush shall be drawn across the
sidewalk at right angles to the edges of the walk with adjacent strokes
slightly overlapping, producing a uniform, slightly roughened surface with
parallel brush marks.
         The surface shall be divided by grooves constructed at right angles to
the center line of the sidewalk. These grooves shall extend to one-fourth inch
(1/4") in width and shall be edged with an edging tool having a one-fourth inch
(1/4") radius. All slabs shall be four feet (4') long on any one side unless
otherwise ordered by the Director of Community Development. The edges of the
slabs shall be edged as described above.
         f.   Temperature Control: Temperature control shall be in accordance
with the requirements of Article 102.14 of the standard specifications
aforesaid and approval of the Director of Community Development.
         g.   Protection From Low Temperatures: The sidewalk shall be protected
from low temperatures as specified in Article 1020.13 of the standard
specifications and supplemental specifications aforesaid. No concrete shall be
placed on ice, snow or frozen subgrade. The builder shall be responsible for
all concrete damaged by low temperatures and any concrete so damaged shall be
removed and replaced by them at their expense.
         h.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of the thickness specified
below shall consist of preformed joint filler. The top of the joint shall be
placed one-fourth inch (1/4") below the surface of the sidewalk.
            (1)   Expansion joints of one-half inch (1/2") thick shall be
placed between the sidewalk and all structures such as light standards, traffic
light standards, traffic poles and any other public utilities which extend
through the sidewalk.
            (2)   Expansion joints one-half inch (1/2") thick shall be placed
at intervals of fifty feet (50') in the sidewalk and where specified by the
Director of Community Development. Where the sidewalk is constructed adjacent
to pavement or curb having expansion joints, the expansion joints in the
sidewalk shall be placed opposite the existing expansion joints as nearly as
practicable. Expansion joints shall also be placed where the sidewalk abuts
existing sidewalks, between concrete driveway pavement and sidewalk and between
sidewalk and curbs where the sidewalk abuts the curb.
         i.   Backfill: After the concrete has been cured, forms shall be
removed and the space near the edges of the sidewalk shall be backfilled to the
required elevation with material approved by the Village. The material shall
then be compacted until firm and the surface evenly graded.
         j.   Curing: Sidewalks must be cured as specified in Article 1020.13
of the standard specifications and supplemental specifications.
      4.   Disposal of Surplus Material: Surplus or waste material resulting
from the sidewalk construction operation shall be disposed of by the builder.
      5.   Control of Materials: The builder shall, at their expense, have a
reputable testing laboratory satisfactory to the Village make one fourteen (14)
day compressive test and one (1) twenty-nine (29) day compressive test on
concrete cylinders made from concrete taken from the forms. The laboratory
shall make a written report to the Village on their findings. All work shall be
done in accordance with standard procedures. One report and the associated
tests shall be submitted for each day’s run of concrete placement.
      6.   Guarantee: All work constructed under these standards shall be
guaranteed by the builder to be free from defects in workmanship and materials
and they shall replace or repair any defective work or material upon written
notice from the Village that such defects exist for a period of two (2) years
from the date of written acceptance of the completed work by the builder.
      The developer shall deposit with the Village a bond in the amount of
fifteen percent (15%) of the improvement cost at the time of Village acceptance
of the sidewalk as collateral security for the guarantees hereunder unless
otherwise provided for.
   J.   Street Signs: The subdivision shall be provided with street signs of a
type approved by and erected at locations and in the manner prescribed by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   K.   Underground Public Utilities: The subdivider and developer shall cause
all utility distribution lines for telephone, gas and electric service to be
installed and placed underground within easements or dedicated public ways;
said installations to be in compliance with all orders, rules and laws of the
State of Illinois and agencies thereof.
   L.   Street Lighting: The subdivider and developer shall install street
lighting in accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   The subdivider or developer shall first submit plans for street
lighting to the Director of Community Development, said plans being prepared by
an engineer registered by the State of Illinois.
         b.   The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for coordinating
the improvement work, correcting faulty work and consulting with the Director
of Community Development in the settlement of any construction disputes, plan
changes or plan adjustments.
         c.   The subdivider or developer shall notify the Director of
Community Development twenty-four (24) hours in advance of construction work;
all contract work to be approved by the Director of Community Development.
         d.   All electrical and power connections shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the Commonwealth Edison Company.
         e.   Upon completion of construction of lighting facilities, a set of
“as-built” plans shall be delivered to the Director of Community Development.
      2.   Performance, Materials and Installation: Performance, material and
installation standards shall meet standards in accordance with the Elk Grove
Village Street Lighting Standards on file with the Public Works Department.
   M.   Trees:
      1.   Number, Location and Type:
         a.   Street trees shall be planted throughout the entire residential
subdivision and commercial establishments within residential areas. Such trees
shall be planted in the parkways equidistant between the sidewalks and curb and
no closer than five feet (5') from any sanitary service, water service or
driveway apron. The trees shall be spaced not more than fifty feet (50') apart
and not less than one (1) per lot. At street corners, trees shall be located at
least twenty feet (20') from the intersection of street right-of-way lines.
         b.   Trees initially planted to meet the requirements of this
Subsection and all replacement trees planted after acceptance by the Village
shall be balled and burlapped or bare root trees, except replacement of healthy
trees, as determined by the Village, shall be balled and burlapped. The minimum
trunk diameter of all trees, measured at a height of six inches (6") above the
finished ground level, shall be three inches (3").
         c.   The Approved Tree Species List, as amended from time to time,
which provides a list of tree species that are acceptable to the Village for
planting, is available in the Public Works Department.
         d.   No more than twenty percent (20%) of all trees planted within a
subdivision shall be of the same type unless prior approval is given by the
Director of Community Development. Trees of any one type shall be dispersed
equally throughout the subdivision or commercial area.
         e.   All trees planted shall meet the specifications on file in the
Department of Public Works and the Department of Community Development.
      2.   Guarantee: All trees shall be guaranteed for one full year following
planting. After one year, all trees not in a vigorous growing condition, as
determined by the Director of Community Development, shall be replaced. All
replacement trees shall bear the same guarantee. The Director of Community
Development shall be notified, in writing, thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of the guarantee period, that the guarantee is ending. No tree
shall be accepted by the Village unless approved in writing by the Director of
Community Development.
      3.   Authority and power:
         a.   Delegation of authority and responsibility: The Director of
Public Works and/or their designee, hereinafter referred to in this chapter as
the “Director”, shall have full authority and responsibility to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees and woody plants growing in or upon all Village
streets, rights-of-way, Village parks and other public property. This shall
include the removal of trees that may threaten electrical, telephone, gas or
any Village water or sewer line, or any tree that is affected by fungus, insect
or other pest disease.
         b.   Coordination among Village departments: All Village departments
will coordinate as necessary with the Director and will provide services as
required to ensure compliance with this Chapter as it relates to streets,
alleys, rights-of-way, drainage, easements and other public properties not
under direct jurisdiction of the Director. The decision of the Director in this
area shall be deemed final.
      4.   Tree planting and care standards:
         a.   Standards: All planting and maintenance of public trees shall
conform to the latest American National Standards Institute (ANSI) A-300
“Standards for Tree Care Operations” and shall follow all tree care Best
Management Practices (BMPs) published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
         b.   Requirements of franchise utility companies: The maintenance of
public trees for utility clearance shall conform to all applicable utility
industry standards.
         c.   Preferred Species list: The Director shall maintain an official
list of desirable tree species for planting on public property in two size
classes: Ornamental (twenty (20) feet or less in height at maturity) and Shade
(greater than twenty (20) feet at maturity). Trees from this approved list may
be planted without special permission; other species may be planted with
written approval from the Director.
         d.   Planting distances: The Director shall develop and maintain an
official set of spacing requirements for the planting of trees on public
property. No tree may be planted within the visibility triangle of a street
intersection or within ten (10) feet of a fire hydrant.
         e.   Planting trees under electric utility lines: Only trees listed as
Ornamental trees on the Approved Tree Species List may be planted under or
within fifteen (15) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire.
         5.   Certain trees declared a nuisance:
               Any tree, or limb thereof, on private property determined by the
Director to have contracted a lethal, communicable disease or insect; to be
dead or dying; to obstruct the view of traffic signs or the free passage of
pedestrians or vehicles; or that threatens public health, safety and welfare is
declared a nuisance and the Village may require its treatment or removal.
               Private property owners have the duty, at their own expense, to
remove or treat nuisance trees on their property. The Village may remove such
trees at the owner’s expense if the owner does not comply with treatment and/or
removal as specified by the Director within the written notification period.
§ 8-11B-2 TIME FOR COMPLETION OF CERTAIN IMPROVEMENTS.
   Notwithstanding the expected completion date for all public improvements set
forth above, the Director of Community Development may require that certain of
those improvements be completed prior to said date, which, in their opinion,
are necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the occupants of the
recently subdivided area still under construction. In making such a
determination, the Director of Community Development shall take into
consideration the following:
   A.   The number of buildings or residences completed, either in the
development as a whole or on a block-by-block basis;
   B.   The amount of construction remaining in the subdivision;
   C.   The amount of street traffic and the need of the residents and/or
occupants for a safe means of pedestrian traffic;
   D.   The adequacy of the street improvement in terms of safe vehicular
traffic, including Municipal emergency vehicles and snow plowing equipment;
   E.   Such other factors and conditions which the Director of Community
Development deems pertinent and relevant in requiring any such improvements to
be completed.
   In such cases, the Director of Community Development shall notify the
developer of their decision that certain improvements must be completed and
allow the developer a sufficient time period (not less than 30 days) to
complete same. If such improvements are not completed within the designated
time period, the Director shall cause a stop-work order to be issued for all
construction then in progress and conduct an immediate hearing thereby
affording the developer an opportunity to show cause why such improvements were
not timely completed.
§ 8-11B-3 GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS; LETTER OF CREDIT.
   Subsequent to the time that the plat of subdivision is approved by the
Village, but prior to the construction of public improvements, the developer
must provide the Village with an irrevocable letter of credit or an irrevocable
letter of guarantee from a banking or savings and loan institution organized to
do business in the State of Illinois, which letter of credit or guarantee shall
be in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimated costs
of all public improvements required by this Chapter as approved by the Director
of Community Development. Said letter of credit or guarantee shall set forth
the expected date of completion of said public improvements and, thereafter,
provide for the Village to draw on said letter if such improvements are not
timely completed and approved by the Director of Community Development. The
Village will permit the amount in any letter of credit or guarantee to be
reduced from time to time provided:
   A.   The Director of Community Development has approved those improvements
that are completed and for which a reduction is being requested; and
   B.   The remaining amount of the letter of credit is sufficient to cover the
cost of completing the public improvements not yet completed or approved plus
an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the completed improvements, which
latter amount shall be for the purpose of interim maintenance of approved
improvements until such time as all work is approved and accepted by the
Village and a permanent two (2) year maintenance bond or other approved
security is submitted to the Village.
§ 8-11B-4 INSPECTIONS.
   All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be inspected during the course of construction by the Director of
Community Development or their designated agent. The compensation for such
inspection and other costs incurred in connection with such inspection shall be
paid by the subdivider to the Village. The final completion of all such
improvements shall be subject to the approval thereof by the Director of
Community Development.
§ 8-11B-5 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of the standards of design or
required improvements as set forth in this Article would cause unnecessary
hardship if strictly adhered to and where, because of topographical or other
conditions peculiar to the site or surrounding conditions and in the opinion of
the Plan Commission, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
such provision, the Plan Commission may recommend the approval of a variance to
the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Any variance approved shall be stated in
writing in the minutes of the Plan Commission with the reasoning set forth upon
which the variance was considered justified.
CHAPTER 12: REDEVELOPMENT OF BLIGHTED AREAS
Section
   
8-12-1   Blight Area
§ 8-12-1 BLIGHT AREA.
   A.   Eminent Domain: The corporate authorities of the Village may 1)
exercise its power of eminent domain to acquire by condemnation or otherwise
any improved or unimproved real property which is necessary and appropriate for
the public purpose of elimination and eradication of any blight areas and for
the redevelopment of any blight area, including the fee simple title or such
lesser property interest, including existing leaseholds, as the corporate
authorities deem necessary and appropriate; 2) hold or use any such property
for public uses; 3) convey, lease, mortgage, dispose of land or other property,
real or personal, or rights therein, for purposes of redevelopment, all in a
manner and at such price as the Village determines is reasonably necessary to
achieve the public purpose of eliminating and eradication of a blight area and
the redevelopment of a blight area.
   B.   Definition: “Blight area” means any area which has been designated as a
blight area as provided in this Section. Any improved or vacant area located
within the territorial limits of the Village may be designated by the corporate
authorities as a blight area where, if improved, industrial, commercial and
residential buildings or improvements, because of a combination of five (5) or
more of the following factors: age; dilapidation; obsolescence; deterioration;
illegal use of individual structures; presence of structures below minimum Code
standards; excessive vacancies; overcrowding of structures and community
facilities; lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities; inadequate
utilities; excessive land coverage; deleterious land use or layout;
depreciation or lack of physical maintenance; lack of community planning, are
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare, or if vacant, the sound
growth of the area is impaired by 1) a combination of two (2) or more of the
following factors: obsolete platting of the vacant land; diversity of the
ownership of such land; tax and special assessment delinquencies on such land;
deterioration of structures or site improvements in neighboring areas to the
vacant land; or 2) the area immediately prior to becoming vacant qualified as
an improved blight area.
   C.   Public Hearing: If the corporate authorities of the Village are
considering the designation of the area as a blight area, the corporate
authorities shall, by ordinance, provide for a public hearing, to be held by
the corporate authorities, to determine if the area under consideration
qualifies as a blight area, and at such hearing shall hear testimony and
receive evidence of the factors that exist in the proposed blight area. At the
public hearing, any interested person may file with the Village Clerk written
objections to and may be heard orally in respect to any issues embodied in the
notice of the public hearing. The Village shall hear and determine all protests
and objections at the hearing and the hearing may be adjourned to another date
without further notice, other than a motion to be entered upon the minutes,
fixing the time and place of the subsequent hearing.
   D.   Notice: Notice of the public hearing provided for in Subsection C of
this Section shall be given by publication and mailing. Notice by publication
shall be given by publication at least twice, the first publication to be not
more than thirty (30), nor less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the Village. Notice by mailing shall be
given by depositing such notice in the United States mail, by certified mail
addressed to the person or persons in whose name the general taxes for the last
preceding year were paid on each lot, block, tract or parcel of land lying
within the proposed blight area. Said notice shall be mailed not less than ten
(10) days prior to the date set for public hearing. In the event taxes for the
last preceding year were not paid, the notice shall be sent to the persons last
listed on the tax rolls within the preceding three (3) years as the owners of
such property. The notices published and mailed pursuant to this Subsection D
of this Section shall include the following:
      1.   The time and place of public hearing;
      2.   The boundaries of the proposed blight area by legal description and
by street location where possible;
      3.   A notification that all interested persons will be given an
opportunity to be heard at the public hearing;
      4.   A notification that property within the proposed blight area may be
subject to being acquired by the Village through condemnation if it is
determined that a blight area exists;
      5.   Such other matters as the Village may deem appropriate.
   E.   Ordinance of Determination: The corporate authorities may, by
ordinance, within fourteen (14) to one hundred eighty (180) days from the
completion of the public hearing provided for in Subsection C of this Section
determine that all or a part of the area described in the public notices
published and mailed pursuant to Subsection D of this Section is a blight area.
Said ordinance shall designate the blight area, set forth the boundaries of the
blight area and the factors that exist in the blight area that are detrimental
to the public health, safety and/or welfare.
   F.   Redevelopment Public Hearing: Prior to adopting any ordinance providing
for the conveyance, lease, mortgage, disposition of land or other property or
agreement relating to the redevelopment of all or any part of a blight area,
the corporate authorities of the Village shall hold a public hearing and
request proposals for the redevelopment of the property. Notice of the public
hearing and the request for proposals shall be published in a newspaper which
has a general circulation within the Village. The notice shall be published not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing. Notice of the public hearing shall state:
      1.   The time and place of the public hearing;
      2.   The boundaries of the blight area by legal description and by street
location for which the Village is requesting redevelopment proposals;
      3.   The deadline by which written redevelopment proposals must be
submitted to the Village Clerk, which deadline shall be the close of business
of the last working day which ends not less than seven (7) days prior to the
date of the public hearing;
      4.   A notification that all interested persons will be given an
opportunity to be heard and to submit written comments at the public hearing
relating to the redevelopment of the property and any redevelopment proposals
which have been submitted to the Village in accordance with the notice;
      5.   Such other matters as the Village may deem appropriate.
      At the hearing any interested person may file with the Village Clerk
written comments and may be heard orally with respect to the redevelopment of
the property and any redevelopment proposal or proposals which may have been
submitted with respect to the property. The hearing may be adjourned to another
date without further notice other than a motion to be entered upon the minutes
fixing a time and place of the subsequent hearing. Following the close of the
hearing, the corporate authorities may reject all redevelopment proposals or
enact an ordinance approving or accepting a redevelopment proposal and
providing for the conveyance, lease, mortgage, disposition of land or other
property within the blight area described in the notice of public hearing. Such
approval or acceptance may be subject to any conditions the corporate
authorities deem to be appropriate.
   G.   Conveyance: No conveyance, lease, mortgage, disposition of land or
other property agreement relating to the redevelopment of all or any part of a
blight area shall be made by the Village, except upon the adoption of an
ordinance by the corporate authorities of the Village. Furthermore, no
conveyance, lease, mortgage or other disposition of land or agreement relating
to the redevelopment of all or any part of the blight area shall be made
without public disclosure of the terms of the disposition and all bids and
proposals made relating to the redevelopment of the property.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                      Code Section
5 ILCS 100/10-5                   2-3-4
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.              1-6-3; Zoning Code 8-2
5 ILCS 220/3.2                    4-6-2
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.            1-10-1
5 ILCS 430/5-15                   1-10-1
5 ILCS 430/10-10—10-40          1-10-1
5 ILCS 430/50-5                   1-10-6
5 ILCS 430/70-5                   1-10-1
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                1-10-7
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                1-10-5
10 ILCS 3305                      2-4-1
20 ILCS 3305                      2-4-5; 2-4-12
35 ILCS 120/1—14                3-2-2
35 ILCS 120/2-27                  3-2-8
35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.           3-2-9
35 ILCS 200/31-1                  3-2-5
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.             3-2-7
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.             3-2-8
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.           3-2-8
35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.           8-7-9-4
40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.           1-7-9; 2-6A-1
40 ILCS 5/3-132                   2-6A-2
40 ILCS 5/4-122 et seq.           2-6B-2
40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.           1-7-9
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.              3-13-6; 3-13-7
50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.             5-1-10
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.             3-18-1; 3-18-4
50 ILCS 840/15(d)(6)(A)           3-18-1
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.           2-4-15
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                   8-10-1
65 ILCS 5-3-3                     1-6-6
65 ILCS 5-3-4                     1-6-6
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10               1-5-1
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-25               1-7-8
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                1-7-2; 1-7C-1; 2-1-1
65 ILCS 5/5-2-1                   1-9-2
65 ILCS 5/5-2-16                  1-5-1
65 ILCS 5/5-3-1                   1-5-4
65 ILCS 5/5-3-2                   1-6-6
65 ILCS 5/5-3-9                   1-5-2; 1-7-4; 1-7C-2
65 ILCS 5/8-1-3 et seq.           1-8-5
65 ILCS 5/8-1-8                   1-8-8
65 ILCS 5/8-1-8 et seq.           1-7C-4
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1—5/8-2-9.10    1-8-2
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1 et seq.           1-8-3
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                  3-2-1
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                  3-2-12
65 ILCS 5/8-11-7                  3-2-2
65 ILCS 5/8-11-8                  3-2-3
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23                 3-2-14
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.        2-5-1
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4                 2-2-1
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                8-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                 2-3-1
65 ILCS 5/11-19-1 et seq.         4-6-2
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                 4-5-4
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                 8-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                 8-10-1
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                 8-10-1
75 ILCS 5/2-2                     2-7-1
210 ILCS 120/1                    8-10-9
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          3-2-11
220 ILCS 5/3-105                  3-2-11; 3-2-12
220 ILCS 5/9-221                  3-2-7
220 ILCS 5/9-222                  3-2-7
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                3-2-8
220 ILCS 5/16-102                 3-2-12
220 ILCS 5/16-104                 3-2-12
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.         8-7-9-4
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)              3-13-2; 3-13-3
220 ILCS 5/21-401                 3-13-1; 8-7-9-2
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)           3-13-2
220 ILCS 5/21-801                 3-13-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)              3-13-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)       3-13-1
220 ILCS 5/21-801(d)              3-13-1
220 ILCS 5/22-501                 3-13-8
220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.         3-13-8
220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1)           3-13-8
220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)              3-13-8
220 ILCS 21-201(v)                8-7-9-2
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.             8-7-9-16
220 ILCS 65/4                     8-7-9-5
225 ILCS 57/1 et seq.             3-14-1
225 ILCS 115/1 et seq.            6-5-2
225 ILCS 312                      8-3B-2
225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.            8-10-2
225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.            8-10-2
225 ILCS 460/0.01 et seq.         3-8B-11
225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.            6-5-11
230 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              3-17-1
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.          6-8-3
230 ILCS 15/4                     6-8-3
230 ILCS 15/5                     6-8-3
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.             6-8-2
230 ILCS 30/1                     6-8-2
230 ILCS 40/1                     6-8-2
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.             3-2-13; 3-17-1; 3-17-2; 3-17-3; 3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/5                     3-17-1
230 ILCS 40/15                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/20                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/25                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/26                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/30                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/35                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/40                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/55                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/57                    3-17-6
230 ILCS 40/58                    3-17-7
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.            3-3-1
325 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              3-7A-1-5
410 ILCS 82/1                     6-6-3-5
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.            3-19-5; 6-6-3-5
410 ILCS 130/100 et seq.          6-6-3-5
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.          6-6-3-5
410 ILCS 705/102                  6-6-3-5
410 ILCS 620/1 et seq.            6-6-3-5
425 ILCS 35                       5-3-2
445 ILCS 35                       5-3-2
505 ILCS 89/1                     6-6-3-5
505 ILCS 100-1                    4-5-1
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              6-5-2
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          8-7-9-2
615 ILCS 5/4.9 et seq.            8-10-2
615 ILCS 5/5 et seq.              8-10-7
615 ILCS 5/18g                    8-10-1
625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.              6-13-6
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.          1-11-13; 1-4-4-1; 1-11-2
625 ILCS 5/1-101—5/1-220        6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/Chapter 3, Article IV  6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/3-413                  1-4-4-1
625 ILCS 5/3-609                  6-3-6-6
625 ILCS 5/3-616                  6-3-6-6
625 ILCS 5/Chapter 3, Article VII 6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/3-701                  1-4-4-1
625 ILCS 5/3-815                  6-3-4
625 ILCS 5/Chapter 4, Article II  6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/6-100—5/6-104        6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/6-101                  1-4-4-1
625 ILCS 5/6-116                  1-4-4-1; 6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/6-301—5/6-305        6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/6-308                  6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3               1-11-13
625 ILCS 5/11-306                 6-3-11-1
625 ILCS 5/11-501                 6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1               6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/11-506                 6-3-14
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2              6-3-6-6
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3              1-11-4
625 ILCS 5/11-1302(a)             6-3-6-6
625 ILCS 5/11-1412.1              6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/Chapter 12             6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/12-201—5/12-902      1-4-4-1
625 ILCS 5/13-111                 1-4-4-1; 6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/Chapter 15             6-3-1
625 ILCS 5/15-100 et seq.         6-3-12
625 ILCS 5/15-102                 6-3-13
625 ILCS 5/15-103                 6-3-13
625 ILCS 5/15-107                 6-3-13
625 ILCS 5/15-111                 6-3-13
625 ILCS 5/15-301                 6-3-2
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.          6-6-2-1; 6-7-3
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.            6-7-4
720 ILCS 5/24-1                   6-13-1
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                 6-13-1
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                 6-13-1
720 ILCS 5/36-1                   6-13-1
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.            3-15-6; 6-13-1
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.          3-15-6; 6-6-3-5
720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.          6-13-1
720 ILCS 646/1 et seq.            6-6-3-5
720 ILCS 646/10                   6-6-3-5
720 ILCS 646/100 et seq.          6-6-3-5
730 ILCS                          1-4-5
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.          1-11-11
735 ILCS 5/9-101 et seq.          3-15-6
735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.         1-11-12
735 ILCS 5/15                     3-2-5
750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.             6-7-1
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.         8-10-10
765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.            8-6-3; 8-6-4; 8-6-9
810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.          1-11-12
815 ILCS 5/3                      6-8-1
815 ILCS 5/8                      6-8-1
820 ILCS 130/0.01                 1-8-10
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.            8-7-9-8
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
3706     5-11-2021   3-19-5
                    
 
ZONING ORDINANCE of
ELK GROVE VILLAGE, ILLINOIS
Current through January 1, 2024
   Chapter
      
1 .   TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION
      
2 .   DEFINITIONS
      
3 .   GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
      
4 .   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
      
5 .   PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
      
6 .   ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
      
7 .   REGULATIONS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
      
8 .   ADMINISTRATION AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
      
9 .   NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS
      
10 .   ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
      
11 .   LANDSCAPING AND SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 1: TITLE, PURPOSE, INTERPRETATION
Section
   
1-1   Title
   
1-2   Purpose
   
1-3   Application of Regulations
   
1-4   Interpretation
   
1-5   Separability
§ 1-1 TITLE.
   This Code is herein entitled, 2024 ELK GROVE VILLAGE ZONING ORDINANCE,
commonly referred to as Zoning Ordinance or Ordinance throughout this document.
§ 1-2 PURPOSE.
   1-2-A. The purpose of this Ordinance is to ensure that:
      1.   Adequate light, clean air and safety from fire and other dangers may
be secured;
      2.   The taxable value of land and buildings throughout the municipality
may be conserved;
      3.   Congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided;
      4.   The hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters may be lessened or avoided; and
      5.   The public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare may otherwise
be promoted.
   1-2-B. To accomplish the foregoing, this Ordinance seeks to:
      1.   Divide the Village into zones or districts, restricting and
regulating the location, erection and construction, reconstruction, alteration
and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business, office and
industrial uses as well as other special and specified uses and regulate the
intensity of the use of lot areas so as to determine open space surrounding
buildings, thereby providing adequate light and air to protect public health;
      2.   Establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, office, industrial or other uses within defined areas;
      3.   Fix appropriate standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
      4.   Support uses, buildings or structures compatible with the character
of development or intended use within specified Zoning Districts;
      5.   Facilitate additions, alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to meet the standards and character
advanced by this Ordinance;
      6.   Limit congestion of the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare; provide off-street parking of
motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles; protect against fire,
explosion, noxious fumes, noise and odors and other hazards in the interests of
public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      7.   Prevent overcrowding of the land due to the concentration of
structures and, insofar as possible, appropriate in each Zoning District by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them; and
      8.   Provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development within the Zoning District.
§ 1-3 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   All existing and proposed structures and uses of premises within Elk Grove
Village shall conform with all regulations of this Ordinance. Each Zoning
District is established to allow only those uses specifically permitted. No
Building Permit, other permit or license shall be issued by any Village
Department which would allow construction or a use of land in violation with
the provisions hereof.
§ 1-4 INTERPRETATION.
   This Ordinance is a comprehensive amendment to the Elk Grove Village Zoning
Ordinance existing at the effective date hereof. The provisions hereof shall
supersede all provisions of any previous ordinances of the Village which are
contradictory to its terms.
§ 1-5 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, provision, part or clause of this Ordinance be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of this Ordinance as a whole or any part hereof other than
the part so declared to be invalid.
CHAPTER 2: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
2-1   Rules of Word Construction
   
2-2   Definitions
§ 2-1 RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION.
   2-1-B. The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   2-1-C. The word “may” is permissive.
   2-1-D. Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
words in the plural shall include the singular number.
   2-1-E. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   2-1-F. The word “Village” means the Village of Elk Grove Village, Illinois.
   2-1-G. Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this Ordinance, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof. Any word not defined in this Ordinance shall be construed as defined
in normal dictionary usage.
§ 2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The words defined are those which have special or limited meanings as used
in this Ordinance. Words whose meanings are self-evident as used in this
Ordinance are not defined.
   ABUTTING: See Adjacent.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or USE: Any structure or use, other than the principal
structure or use, directly incidental to or required for the enjoyment of the
permitted use of any premises; also as specifically designated under the Zoning
District regulations of this Ordinance. An accessory structure or use is one
which:
      1.   Is subordinate of and serves a principal structure or principal use;
      2.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal structure
or principal use served;
      3.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of occupants of
the principal structure or principal use served; and
      4.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal structure or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
   ADJACENT: The terms adjacent, abutting and contiguous are used as synonymous
terms, and mean lots located with the same street frontage in contact with or
touching another parcel of land. Lots across a street right-of-way or alley are
not adjacent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2104.png]
   ALTERATION: Any change or addition to the structure.
   ALTERNATIVE PARKING PLAN: A plan provided by a property owner that
demonstrates the feasibility of shared parking between properties or users of a
property.
   AMBULANCE SERVICES: A service that utilizes ambulances to provide emergency
or nonemergency medical ground transport of patients to or from a health care
facility or between facilities.
   AMBULATORY SURGICAL TREATMENT CENTER: Any institution, place or building
devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of facilities for the
performance of surgical procedures. Such facilities shall not provide beds or
other accommodations for the overnight stay of patients. Ambulatory Surgical
Treatment Centers do not include any institution, place or building devoted
exclusively to the performance of dental or oral surgical procedures.
   ANTENNA: Any structure or device designed for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves for telephonic, radio, data, Internet or
other communications, including appurtenant equipment attached to a tower,
building or similar structure for the purpose of providing personal wireless
services.
   ART GALLERIES: An establishment engaged in the sale, loan and/or display of
paintings, sculpture, video art or other works.
   ASSEMBLY/MEETING HALLS: A meeting place at which the public or membership
groups are assembled regularly or occasionally, including but not limited to
schools, churches, theaters, auditoriums, funeral homes, stadiums and similar
places of assembly.
   ASPHALT/CONCRETE PLANTS: A plant for the manufacturing, storage or mixing of
concrete, cement and asphalt products, including any apparatus and uses
incidental to such manufacturing, storage and mixing.
   ATHLETIC FIELD: Facilities used for sporting activities such as softball,
baseball, football, soccer, running track, tennis and other non-motorized
sports. Athletic Fields may include bleachers and other complementary
facilities.
   AUTOMOBILE/TRUCK RENTAL: An establishment where contracts are prepared or
reservations accepted for the rental or leasing of motor vehicles. This term
includes incidental storage of vehicles but does not include on premise
maintenance of vehicles or a tool/equipment rental facility.
   AUTOMOBILE/TRUCK SALES: The use of any building or portion thereof, or other
premises, for the display, sale, rental or lease of new motor vehicles. The
sale of used motor vehicles, any warranty repair work and other repair service
may be conducted as an accessory use to new vehicle sales.
   AWNING: A roof like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2106.png]
   BAKERY/COFFEE SHOP: An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of
beverages and baked products for consumption on or off site. The products may
be prepared either on or off-site.
   BANKS: See Financial Institutions.
   BAR: An establishment used for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the drink
for on-site consumption.
   BASEMENT: The portion of a building partly or wholly underground but having
one-half (1/2) or more than one-half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height
below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BEDROOM: Any room intended for sleeping purposes and having closet or
storage facilities immediately attached and does not include rooms intended as
living rooms, dining rooms, kitchens, bathrooms, recreation or utility
purposes.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The duly and currently serving elected Trustees of the
Village of Elk Grove Village.
   BOUNDARY LANDSCAPING: The landscaped area, as required by this Ordinance,
located along all abutting streets or rights-of-way.
   BREWPUB: A full-service restaurant where beer is brewed or manufactured on
the premises, with the primary distribution being in the adjoining full-service
restaurant.
   BROADCASTING FACILITIES: A building or portion thereof used for the
production and broadcast of media-related programming. This term includes, but
is not limited to, radio and television broadcasting stations and other uses
similar in nature and impact.
   BUILDING: A structure that is permanently affixed to the ground and designed
or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons,
animals, chattels or property. A mobile home is not a building.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A non-accessory building which the principal use of the
zoning lot on which it is located is conducted.
   BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the Village for the construction,
alteration or demolition of a building or structure, or other purpose as
determined by the Village.
   BULK: A term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings and the
location of same with respect to the lot on which situated. It includes height
of the building, the amount of ground coverage on the lot which the building
occupies, the lot size in relation to the building, the maximum floor area
ratio, lot width and required yard areas maintained around buildings or
structures.
   BULK MATERIALS: Solid matter such as powder, grain, stone, sand, coal,
sulfur, etc., which has a tendency to become airborne when not contained.
   BUSINESS AND TRADE SCHOOL: A specialized instructional establishment
providing on-site training of business, commercial and/or trade skills such as
business skills, computer operations and manufacturing/industrial skills.
Institutions affiliated with colleges or universities are included in this
category.
   BUSINESS SERVICES: Offices of services rendered to a business establishment
or individual on a fee or contract basis including actuarial, advertising,
janitorial, office or business equipment rental or leasing, printing, etc.
   BUSINESS SERVICES AND ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES: Offices of services rendered
to a corporate headquarters or similar large business operations.
   CAMPER TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis or metal
welded unit body, with a superstructure made in part or in whole of canvas,
metal frame and/or plastic or synthetic material.
   CAR WASH: A building or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
cars, vans or similarly sized motor vehicles, using production-line methods and
mechanical devices, or containing facilities for washing such motor vehicles,
using self-service mechanical devices.
   CLEAN MANUFACTURING: Processing and manufacturing that is primarily
completed with state-of-the-art equipment which limits waste, carbon footprint,
etc. through means of sophisticated technology and equipment.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE: The required amount of land in Planned Developments and
multi-family Special Use developments intended and designed for the use or
enjoyment of the residents of such developments which is unoccupied by
buildings and structures. Common open space shall not include parking lots,
driveways and access ways thereto; public rights-of-way and streets; and land
located within thirty feet (30') of a principal building or structure. For the
purpose of this definition, structures shall not include outdoor swimming pools
open to the air.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A group home or specialized residential care home, that
is not otherwise a skilled nursing facility, serving persons with disabilities,
as that term is defined in the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended, or
any successor statute, that have been determined to be eligible for services by
an independent service coordination agency, and which agency has determined
that joint occupancy of a residential property is medically necessary or
beneficial for the person with disabilities.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, FAMILY: A Community Residence of no more than eight (8)
unrelated persons with disabilities.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, GROUP: A Community Residence of between nine (9) to
fifteen (15) unrelated persons with disabilities.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Comprehensive Plan comprises all the documents
adopted by the Mayor and Board of Trustees as elements of the Comprehensive
Plan.
   CONTIGUOUS: See Adjacent.
   CONVENTION AND MEETING FACILITIES: A building or portion thereof used for
holding assemblies, conferences, conventions, public meetings, seminars, trade
shows, workshops or other similar activities. A convention facility may include
dining facilities for the use of participants, as well as other compatible
accessory uses but may not include sleeping or dwelling quarters or lodging as
an accessory use to the convention facility.
   CO-WORKING CENTERS: An office facility with workspace used by employees of
different companies or divisions of a company. The space may be part of a
specific company’s office use or a separate, independent facility. This use may
include office amenities such as conference rooms, kitchen areas, general work
areas, etc. to be shared by those working in the space. Co-Working Centers may
include spaces to facilitate group work and collaboration.
   CURRENCY EXCHANGE: Any establishment primarily engaged in the business or
service of, and providing facilities for, cashing checks, drafts or money
orders for a fee or service charge, or which is engaged in the business of
selling and/or issuing money orders.
   DATA CENTERS: A facility primarily used for the storage, management,
processing and transmission of digital data including related office areas
through the use of support equipment such as servers, networks and other
similar computer-based components.
   DAYCARE CENTER: A facility, other than within a residential dwelling unit,
which exclusively provides supplemental care and supervision, recreation and/or
educational instruction to children or adults during the entire or any portion
of the day. Daycare Centers shall be in keeping with current state regulations.
   DAYCARE HOME: A residential dwelling which receives more than three (3) and
up to a maximum of eight (8) children for less than twenty-four (24) hours per
day. The maximum of eight (8) children includes the family’s natural, foster or
adopted children and all other persons under the age of twelve (12). Daycare
Homes shall be in keeping with current state regulations.
   DECIBEL dB(a): A unit of measurement of the sound level. Sound Level Meters
employed to measure the intensity of sound are calibrated in Decibels.
   DENSITY: A ratio determined as follows:
Number of Dwelling Units
          (divided by)           
Total Lot Area exclusive of all streets, public and
private (Expressed in Dwelling Units per acres)
      Although this ratio is defined by using lot sizes, it is also used in
determining overall densities when area developments are proposed without
regard to individual lots, such as in a Planned Development, in which case,
density is the numerical value obtained by dividing the total dwelling units in
a development by the area of a tract of land upon which the dwelling units are
located, less all areas devoted to public or private streets or ways and
designated and used for vehicular traffic.
   DOMESTIC PET SERVICES: Facilities that provide services for dogs and cats,
such as daycare or obedience training. This does not include medical services
or overnight kenneling of animals.
   DRIVE-THRU FACILITY: A facility, establishment or part thereof where goods
or services are provided to customers while waiting in vehicles moving through
designated stacking lanes for consumption or use off the premises.
   DRIVEWAY: A private vehicular way located on a property and accessible to a
roadway for vehicles to access a parking space, garage, dwelling or other
structure.
   DWELLING: A dwelling is a building providing shelter, sanitation, cooking
and sleeping accommodations and the amenities for permanent habitation. It does
not include mobile homes, temporary lodging or individual sleeping rooms for
rent.
   DWELLING UNIT: Dwelling unit refers to that dwelling accommodation within a
building designed for one individual or family unit maintaining separate and
independent housekeeping.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by two (2) or more families living independently of each
other. Multiple-Family Dwellings have individual entries, are located in a
single building and are accessed through a common entrance and corridors.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling designed exclusively for use and
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: A single-family dwelling which is joined
to another dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall or walls, commonly
known as a townhome.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A dwelling designed exclusively for use
and occupancy by one family, which is entirely surrounded by open space and is
not connected to any other dwelling unit by roof, walls or porches.
   EASEMENT: An authorization or grant of right by a property owner for the use
by another, and for one or more specific purposes, of any designated part of
the owner property.
   ELK GROVE TECHNOLOGY PARK DESIGN GUIDELINES: Design guidelines adopted by
the Village as a basis for reviewing and approving Permitted, Conditional and
Special Use development, redevelopment and modifications within the area
designated as the Elk Grove Technology Park.
   ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES: See “Indoor Places of Entertainment and
Amusements”.
   ENTREPRENEURSHIP CENTERS/BUSINESS ACCELERATOR: An office facility providing
space and services to those persons starting or seeking to grow existing
businesses.
   EQUIPMENT SALES, RENTAL OR MAINTENANCE: Businesses selling or renting tools,
tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements and similar
equipment. Equipment Sales and Rental uses may include the storage, maintenance
and servicing of such equipment.
   FAMILY: i) A person living alone; ii) two (2) or more persons related by
blood, marriage or adoption including foster children living together as a
single housekeeping unit and occupying a single dwelling unit; iii) a group of
not more than five (5) persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage or
adoption including foster children living together as a single housekeeping
unit by joint agreement and occupying a single dwelling on a nonprofit, cost
sharing basis; or iv) a group of four (4) or more persons living in a Community
Residence.
   FENCE: A structure made of wood, metal, plaster, masonry or other material
commonly associated with such a structure, forming a barrier at grade level
between lots, between a lot and a street or an alley or between portions of a
lot or lots.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A bank, savings and loan, credit union or similar
financial related institution.
   FLOOR AREA: The total square footage of all floors of a building including
the exterior unfinished wall structure but excluding courtyards and other
outdoor areas. For adjoining units, floor area is as measured from the center
line of common partitions and the exteriors of outside walls.
      1.   Multiple-Family Residential Uses: Floor Area also will include the
penthouse, attic space with any portion of height seven and one half (7.5')
feet or greater, mezzanines, covered porches, parking located in structures
above or partially above grade and areas used for mechanical equipment.
      2.   Single-Family Uses: Floor Area also will include the attic space
with any portion of height seven and one half (7.5') feet or greater,
mezzanines, covered porches, sheds, attached or detached garages and accessory
structures.
      3.   Offices, Commercial or Industrial Uses: Floor Area shall mean the
floor area designed for tenant or owner occupancy and exclusive use, including,
mezzanines and upper floors, if any, expressed in square feet, measured from
the center lines of common partitions and exteriors of outside walls. It shall
not include areas used principally for utilities and space incidental to the
management or maintenance of the building such as mechanical rooms or janitor
closets.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS: See Floor Area.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO: The Floor Area Ratio is determined as follows:
Total Floor Area, all floors on Lot (sq. ft.)
(divided by)
Total Lot Area exclusive of all Right-of-way (sq. ft.)
   FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination. Technically, the illumination at all
points one foot (1') distant from a uniform point source of one candlepower.
   FOUNDRIES, NONFERROUS: Factories where castings are produced by melting
metal, pouring liquid metal into a mold and then allowing it to solidify.
   FRONTAGE: The portion of a property or properties facing a street or right-
of-way.
   FUELING STATION: Any building or premises used for dispensing, sale or
offering for sale, at retail, to the public, gasoline stored only in
underground tanks. May include sales of automotive supplies and repair
facilities. Sale of convenience shopping goods to those purchasing gasoline, or
others, may also be a part of this activity.
   GARAGE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building intended for and used to store vehicles.
   GARDEN STORES: Retail business whose principal activity is the selling of
plants and landscape materials which may be grown on the site and other
gardening equipment and supplies, typically having outside storage, growing or
display.
   GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES: A building owned, operated and/or
occupied by a governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the
public.
   GRADE, FINISHED: For properties with an existing principal building, the
finished grade of land area improved with a building is the elevation of the
surface of the land adjoining the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2108.png]
   GRADE, ESTABLISHED: For properties without an existing principal building or
where a principal building has been removed for redevelopment, the average
elevation at the corners of the buildable areas of the site as formed by the
intersection of the minimum required front yard, rear yard and side yard
setback lines. Grade shall be established prior to any development or issuance
of a Building Permit.
   GROUND COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal
buildings or structures and accessory structures excluding swimming pools.
   HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the highest finished grade at the
building foundation to the top of the highest roof beams of a flat roof or the
mean elevation of the highest gable or slope of a hip roof.
      Measuring Building Height:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2110.png]
   HELIPORT: An area on land or upon a structure set aside and used for the
landing and takeoff of rotary wing aircraft.
   HELISTOP: A temporary landing site for helicopters. The Helistop does not
include the provision of service, fuel, maintenance or storage of helicopters.
   HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession conducted from a residential
dwelling.
   HOSPITAL: An institution, place, building or agency, public or private,
devoted primarily to the maintenance and operation of facilities for the
diagnosis and treatment or care of persons admitted for emergency treatment or
out-patient services or for overnight stay or longer in order to obtain
medical, including obstetric, psychiatric and nursing, care of illness,
disease, injury, infirmity or deformity.
   HOTEL: An establishment that provides guests with overnight accommodations
that do not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days, in exchange for monetary
compensation. Commercial areas, meeting areas, dining areas and other guest
facilities that are open to both patrons and the general public may be
included. Individual guest rooms may include limited cooking facilities, such
as a microwave or mini-fridge, but not a full kitchen. Guest rooms to hotels,
as defined in this Ordinance, shall be accessed from interior corridors.
   HOTEL, EXTENDED STAY: An establishment that provides guests with overnight
accommodations for monetary compensation that allows occupancy for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days with the following:
      1.   Commercial areas, meeting areas, dining areas and other guest
facilities that are open to both patrons and the general public may be
included;
      2.   Twenty-four (24) hour reception and/or registration service is
provided;
      3.   Daily housekeeping services are available; and
      4.   Individual guest rooms contain a full kitchen, including a
refrigerator, stove top, kitchen sink, microwave oven and all related cooking
utensils and dishes.
   Guest rooms to hotels, as defined in this Ordinance, shall be accessed from
interior corridors.
   IMPULSE: Discrete vibration pulsations occurring no more often than one per
second.
   INDOOR ATHLETIC TRAINING AND RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Facilities for teaching
basic and advanced skills in a variety of recreational activities including,
but not limited to baseball, basketball, softball, football, soccer,
gymnastics, martial arts and similar athletic disciplines with permitted
ancillary uses such as competitions, exhibitions and similar events that
include spectator participation.
   INDOOR PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS: Spectator and participatory
uses conducted within an enclosed building, such as movie theaters, arcades and
indoor sporting exhibitions. Indoor amusement facilities may include accessory
uses, such as snack bars or restaurants, for the use of patrons.
   INDOOR RETAIL SALES OF GOODS: The Indoor Retail Sales of Goods applies to
retail uses which display or conduct the sale or rental of merchandise entirely
within an enclosed building. Examples may include antique shops, furniture
stores, groceries stores, hardware stores, department stores, clothing/wearing
apparel stores, bookstores, sporting goods stores, drug stores, pharmacies,
florist shops and similar uses.
   INDUSTRIAL COMMERCIAL REVITALIZATION MASTER PLAN UPDATE (ICRC): A document
prepared for and adopted by the Village, which established design and
development standards in order to maintain and enhance the Village’s strong
business atmosphere.
   INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER DESIGN GUIDELINES: Design guidelines
adopted by the Village as the basis for reviewing and approving Permitted,
Conditional and Special Use development, redevelopment and modifications within
the Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District.
   INTENSE BURNING: A rate of combustion described by a material that burns
with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly. Examples: sawdust;
magnesium (powder, flaked or strips); rocket fuels.
   KENNEL: Any lot, premises or portion thereof on which more than four (4)
dogs or four (4) cats or other domestic animals are kept, or where any four (4)
domestic animals are boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
   LABORATORY: A building or group of buildings which include facilities for
scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation, but not
facilities for the manufacturing, assembling or sale of products, except as
incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
   LAND USE AND ZONING PLAT: A drawing or map made to a measurable scale upon
which is presented a description and definition of the way in which the design
requirements of the Planned Development are to be met.
   LIGHT ASSEMBLY: Uses designed for assembly and packaging of materials at a
high-level performance standard. Light Assembly establishments do not create a
nuisance to surrounding properties. Light Assembly shall consist of the
assembly by hand or hand-held tools or an equivalent process of parts which
have already been fabricated prior to such assembly.
   LOADING SPACE OR DOCK, OFF-STREET: A hard-surfaced area of land, other than
a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for the standing,
loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers, to avoid undue
interference with public streets and alleys.
   LOT: A subdivided parcel of land under one ownership devoted to a common use
or occupied by a single or principal building plus accessory structures and
which is shown as a lot on a recorded and approved plat of subdivision.
      1.   LOT (CORNER): A lot which abuts on two (2) intersecting streets.
      2.   LOT (THROUGH): Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts on two
(2) streets.
      3.   LOT (INTERIOR): A lot abutting one street and lots on other sides.
      4.   LOT (TRIPLE FRONTAGE): A lot which abuts on three (3) streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2112.png]
   LOT AREA: The horizontal area within the exterior lines of the lot,
exclusive of any area in a public or private right-of-way open to public uses.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is part of a recorded subdivision or a parcel of
land that has been recorded with the Cook County and/or DuPage County
Recorder’s Office.
   LOT LINE: The dividing lines between a public way and an abutting lot or
between lots.
   LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots or a
parcel of land described by metes and bounds, that is of sufficient size to
meet the minimum Zoning District requirements of this Ordinance and having
frontage on an improved public street, and which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract of land to be used, developed or built upon as a unit,
under a single ownership or control. A Zoning Lot may or may not coincide with
the definition of a Lot of Record.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons.
   MANUFACTURING: The production or processing of products or commodities for
general consumption of the public or for sale to specialized institutions or
organizations. Also included is the assembly, disassembly, repair, cleaning,
servicing, testing, packaging, fabrication or processing of parts or components
for use in other products or commodities.
   MANUFACTURING, LIMITED: The assembly, fabrication, packaging or other
industrial processing of finished parts or products, primarily from previously
prepared materials, conducted indoors. Also included is the processing,
assembly, treatment or packaging of food, beverages, wood, paper, plastic,
metal, electronics, similar products and research and development. Does not
include processing from raw materials.
   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL: The manufacturing, processing, cleaning, assembly,
servicing and testing, typically including the use and/or storage of raw
materials, into goods or materials, usually for sale to wholesale or other
manufacturing uses. Such uses may require storage of materials, and may produce
dust, smoke, fumes, odors or noise. Examples include the manufacturing of
chemicals, gypsum and plaster products, glass products, paving and roofing
materials or food preparation.
   MEDICAL CLINIC: A medical and/or dental facility used for offices of more
than one doctor for the examination and treatment of patients, which doctors
may be associated together or practicing independently of each other, while
sharing the facilities and equipment therein, and shall not include a facility
devoted primarily for the purpose of surgical procedures. Such facility shall
not provide beds or other accommodations for the overnight stay of patients.
   MEDICAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT: A facility primarily used for medical
study, research and experimentation in the scientific fields of biology,
biophysics, biochemistry, bioelectronics, biotechnology, biomedical
engineering, bioinformatics, medicine, immunology, embryology, clinical
engineering, diagnostics, therapeutics, nutraceuticals, pharmacogenomics, drug
production, genetic testing or gene therapy activities.
   MICROBREWERY: A manufacturer of alcoholic malt beverages of up to fifteen
thousand (15,000) barrels per year for the purpose of wholesale distribution of
a majority of its product with incidental sales of up to three thousand (3,000)
barrels to the public for on-site consumption or carryout.
   MICRODISTILLERY: A small-scale artisan manufacturing business that blends,
ferments, processes, packages and distributes alcoholic spirits on the
premises. The microdistillery facility may include an ancillary tasting room
and retail component in which guests/customers may sample and purchase the
product. Operation of the facility shall be consistent with Illinois State law
regarding “Craft Distillers”.
   MICROWINERY: Combination retail, wholesale and small-scale artisan
manufacturing business that blends, ferments, processes, packages and
distributes wine for sale on or off site. The microwinery facility may include
an ancillary tasting room and retail component in which guests/customers may
sample and purchase the product. Operation of the facility shall be consistent
with Illinois State law regarding “Second Class Wine Makers”.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE: A building or group of buildings consisting of individual,
self-contained units leased to individuals, organizations or businesses for
self-service storage of personal property.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: A self-contained food service operation, located in a
readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle, used to store, prepare,
display or serve food intended for individual portion service.
   MOBILE HOME/TRAILER, SALES AND RENTAL: An establishment primarily engaged in
the rental and sales of mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land developed with facilities for
locating two (2) or more manufactured homes provided each manufactured home
contains a kitchen, flush toilet and shower or bath and that such Mobile Home
Park shall be for the use only by non-transient dwellers remaining continuously
for more than six (6) months. It shall not include a sales lot in which motor
vehicles or unoccupied trailers are parked for the purpose of inspection or
sale.
   MOTORIZED HOME: A portable dwelling designed and constructed as integral
part of a self propelled vehicle.
   MUSEUM OR CULTURAL FACILITY: An establishment that is open to the public and
provides cultural services and facilities including, but not limited to
cultural centers, historical societies, aquariums and libraries operated by a
public, private or non-profit organization.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE: A material which will not ignite; not actively support
combustion during an exposure for five (5) minutes to a temperature of one
thousand two hundred degrees (1,200°) Fahrenheit.
   NON-CONFORMING (LEGAL) STRUCTURE or USE: A structure or use of any premises
which does not conform with all applicable provisions of this Zoning Ordinance
but which legally existed at the effective date hereof.
   OFFICE (BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL): The office of business and professional
persons and businesses, such as an engineer, doctor, dentist, attorney, real
estate broker, insurance broker, architect or other similar professional
person, and any office used primarily for accounting, correspondence, research,
editing or administration.
   OFFICIAL MAP: The Map adopted as the Official Map in Section 8-2-2 of the
Elk Grove Village Code.
   OPERATOR: Means and includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager,
operator and person in charge of any permitted premises.
   OUTDOOR: Refers to that which is not within a building.
   OUTDOOR DINING: Outdoor Dining when associated with a restaurant.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY: Temporary, limited outdoor presentation of items also sold
inside the associated commercial use and located abutting or in close proximity
of the building. All items on Outdoor Display are purchased within the
associated business.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION OR AMUSEMENT: Uses that provide entertainment services
partially or wholly outside of a completely enclosed building. Such uses
typically, although not always, attract an audience where patrons are not
engaged in a physical recreational activity. Examples may include amusement
parks, drive-in theaters, outdoor live theaters, vehicular and animal
racetracks, zoos and similar land uses.
   OUTDOOR SALES: Temporary outdoor retail operations and displays, allowed by
Village permit, of items that are sold during a specific season, including such
items as Christmas trees, pumpkins, watermelons, sweet corn and budding plants.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE: The storing, in an unenclosed area, of any goods,
equipment, material, merchandise, that is an accessory to an otherwise
Permitted, Conditional or Special Use, and as otherwise regulated by this
Ordinance.
   PAPER AND PULP PROCESSING: The manufacture of paper and paperboard, from
both raw and recycled materials, and their conversion into products including
paper bags, boxes, envelopes, wallpaper, etc.
   PARKING AREA: An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or public
way, intended to be used for the storage of motor vehicles, whether for
compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
   PARKING LOTS, PUBLIC: A paved parking area available to the public, with or
without payment of a fee.
   PARKING PAD: An improved surface located on a residential parcel that is
designed or used for vehicle parking. A parking pad is not a driveway, although
it may be accessed by a driveway or apron across public property.
   PARKING SPACE: Space within a public or private parking area, exclusive of
access drives, or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half tons capacity.
   PARKWAY: That portion of the Village-owned property between the curb line,
shoulder line, traveled portion of the roadway or alley and the private
property line.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PERSONAL SERVICES: Provision for a fee of any service to individual
customers for their own personal benefit and enjoyment and/or convenience and
for fulfillment of their own personal needs. This contemplates service to the
final customer. For example, such consumer services contemplate provisions for
Personal Services, such as beautician and barbering services; specialized
instruction, financial, legal and medical services; laundry and dry-cleaning
services; and other similar services.
   PETROLEUM STORAGE FACILITIES: The storage of petroleum products in above
ground containers for subsequent resale to distributors, retail dealers or
outlets.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD): A type of development in which the regulatory
process permits the developer to meet overall community planning and land use
goals without being strictly bound by bulk zoning requirements, but will be
governed by specific requirements within the boundary of the PD.
   PLAN COMMISSION: The Plan Commission of the Village of Elk Grove Village, as
constituted by the Village Code.
   PORCH: A roofed-over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure, and partially open to the weather.
   PRECISION ENGINEERING: A facility primarily engaged in the design,
development and production of precision engineered products using state of the
art equipment and technology with limited resources, waste and environmental
impacts.
   PREMISES: A lot or other tract of land under one ownership and all the
structures on it.
   PRESCHOOL: A school for children primarily between the ages of three (3) and
five (5), providing childcare services and organized instruction of children
who have not reached the age for enrollment in kindergarten.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: The building in which the main function of a particular
property is conducted, as distinguished from an accessory structure.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The main activity on a property for dwelling, commercial,
recreational, public or other use, as distinguished from an accessory use.
   PRIVATE OPEN SPACE: Any privately-owned open area commonly part of a
privately developed residential, commercial or free-standing area such as a
private golf course.
   PROCESSING: Manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, repairing, cleaning,
servicing, testing and any other similar original or restorative treatment
applied to materials, products or goods.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: The offices of professional persons and businesses
mainly providing services related to businesses and organizations involved in
innovation, technology and entrepreneurship.
   PUB: See Bar.
   PUBLIC RECREATION: Public land which has been designated for park or
recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park, playground,
nature trail, athletic field, basketball or tennis court, pedestrian/bicycle
path, open space, pools, golf courses or similar public land which is under the
control, operation or management of recreation authorities.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES: Any utility, -operated or -approved ground-level or pole-
mounted equipment that is specifically provided in connection with any utility
provided by or within the Village, including, without limitation, public water
or sewer service. Such facilities may include fiber-optic and/or wireless
telecommunications capabilities.
   RECREATIONAL USES/FACILITIES: Indoor-outdoor functions oriented to health,
sports or other passive or active similar amusement activities.
   RECYCLING FACILITY: A facility designed and used for collection, sorting
and/or temporary storage of recyclable materials prior to delivery for reuse,
and/or processing into new products. This type of facility includes most
activity being conducted indoors with any outdoor storage being screened and
does not include practices or operations commonly associated with junk yards or
wrecking yards.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT: A facility in which a wide range of goods and
materials are analyzed, tested, experimented on and assessed for further
development. This activity includes scientific research and experimentation.
   RESTAURANT: An establishment, or part thereof, in which food and/or drink is
prepared, served and consumed on the premises or provided as part of a carryout
service for the consumption of food and drink off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: A dining establishment providing customers with food
intended for consumption off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN: An establishment, or part thereof, in which food and/
or drink is prepared, facilities are provided to serve customers or to consume
commodities, or both, intended to occur primarily in patron’s automobiles,
parked on the premises or at tables outdoors on the premises.
   RETAIL SALES: Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip or area of land, typically dedicated to the public,
and occupied or intended to be occupied by any sidewalk, street, alley, highway
or other public way.
   SCHOOL, BUSINESS AND TRADE: An educational facility specializing in
instruction and/or on-site training of business, commercial and/or trade
skills.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE: Privately operated educational facility for students
typically from kindergarten through high school age.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC: Publicly operated educational facility for students
typically from preschool through high school age.
   SCREEN WALL: A wall that is erected to mitigate visual impacts of mechanical
systems, outdoor parking or other activities, required for the building
operation of the subject business. Such walls are consistent with the
architecture of the principal building.
   SENIOR INDEPENDENT LIVING: A facility providing housing and services for a
group of persons, typically seniors, able to meet most regular daily needs.
Such facilities may include provision of meals, common dining areas,
housekeeping and personal care assistance.
   SETBACK LINE (FRONT): The line nearest the front of and across a zoning lot,
establishing the minimum setback to be provided between the front line of a
building or structure and the front property line or street right-of-way line.
   SETBACK LINE (REAR): The line nearest the rear of and across a zoning lot,
establishing the minimum setback to be provided between the rear line of a
building or structure and the rear property line or street right-of-way line.
   SETBACK LINE (SIDE): The line nearest the side of a zoning lot, between the
front and rear setback line, establishing the minimum setback to be provided
between the side line of a building or structure and adjacent property or
street right-of-way line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2114.png]
   SHED: A detached structure intended for storage of property, but not for
storage of motor vehicles, such as automobiles, trucks, motor homes, etc. Sheds
are constructed of metal, wood, plastic or other material found to be
comparable and do not require a foundation.
   SHOPPING CENTER: Any concentration of two (2) or more retail stores and/or
service establishments in one or more buildings, or on one or more adjacent
lots, under single ownership or management or with one or more of the
following:
      1.   Common parking facilities;
      2.   Common stormwater detention or storm sewer facilities;
      3.   Common water distribution facilities;
      4.   Common sanitary sewer facilities; or
      5.   Without exclusive ingress or egress from public streets.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A residential structure, offered for rent for a period
which does not exceed thirty (30) consecutive days. The term short-term rental
shall not include hotels.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE CLEARANCE: An area required in locations where an
unobstructed view of approaching traffic is necessary for the safety of
pedestrians, bicyclists and drivers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2116.png]
   SIGN: Any object or device containing letters, figures and/or other means of
communication or part thereof, situated outdoors or indoors, of which the
effect produced is to advertise, announce, communicate, identify, declare,
demonstrate, direct, display and/or instruct potential users of a use, product
and/or service.
   SKILLED CARE HOUSING: A residential facility, not including a community
residence, providing care for persons with a disability or seniors needing
assistance for a range of daily or medical needs. Staff provide on-site care,
training or support for the residents. The facility provides, or contracts to
provide, supervisory care services, personal care services and directed care
services on a continuous basis. These facilities are commonly designated as
assisted living, or skilled/memory care.
   SMELTING AND REFINING OF PRECIOUS METALS: The extraction of valuable metals
from ores using melting or heating.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS: An energy producing device which converts solar energy
by means of a photovoltaic system into electrical energy.
   SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument designed to measure Sound Pressure Levels.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL: The intensity of sound or noise in decibels.
   STACKING SPACE: A paved area reserved for and devoted to the temporary
parking of automobiles in the process of changing passengers or waiting for the
performance of a service.
   STOOP: A raised platform, approached by steps and sometimes having a roof,
at the entrance to a building.
   STORAGE CONTAINER: An enclosed, reusable vessel with doors for loading and
unloading, designed without an axle or wheels, which was originally,
specifically or formerly designed for or used in the packing, shipping,
movement or transportation of freight, articles, goods or commodities, and/or
designed for or capable of being mounted or moved by trains, trucks, ships and
other modes of transportation. This definition shall not include sheds.
   STREET: A public or private vehicular right-of-way, other than an alley or
driveway, including both local streets and arterial highways.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: Roadways connecting local streets with the arterial
street system and provides traffic service to less intense developments like
residential, schools, religious institutions, parks and low intensity
commercial developments. Collector Streets provide an equal balance of both
access and traffic movement.
   STREET, MAJOR ARTERIAL: Roadways that serve as the primary streets and
connect areas of activity. Major arterials connect to freeways/expressways and
serve regional traffic. The primary function of major arterials is to move
traffic, with the provision of access to abutting properties being a secondary
function.
   STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL: Like major arterials, minor arterials also serve to
connect activity centers, but they also serve less intense development areas
like small retail centers, office centers and industrial/business parks. While
the primary function of minor arterials continues to be moving traffic, access
becomes a slightly more important function.
   STREET, PRIVATE: Any street not owned by or dedicated to any governmental
agency.
   STRUCTURE: Any combination of materials assembled to perform a function in a
fixed location of land; includes buildings.
   SURGERY WITH OUTPATIENT CARE: A healthcare-based facility which provides
patients with same day diagnostic and preventative care surgical procedures not
requiring an overnight stay.
   SWIMMING POOL: A recreational structure for water and including all
appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or aboveground.
   TAVERN: See Bar.
   TECHNOLOGY BASED OPERATIONS: Businesses or other organizations generally
engaged in scientific and technology based operations related to innovation,
technology or entrepreneurship.
   TRUCK REPAIR/MAINTENANCE: A premise where motor trucks, tractors, truck
trailers and industrial and commercial vehicles are overhauled, rebuilt or
repaired.
   TRUCK TERMINALS: A gathering point of vehicles at which the contents thereof
are distributed or combined or stored for a short period of time until
distributed or combined.
   UNDERTAKING ESTABLISHMENTS (FUNERAL HOMES): A building used for the
preparation of the deceased for burial display and rituals before burial or
cremation. This facility may include chapels located within the building used
for the display of the deceased and the conducting of rituals before burial or
cremation.
   UNIFIED CONTROL: A combination of two (2) or more tracts of land wherein
each owner has agreed that their tract of land shall be developed as part of a
joint development and potentially considered by the Village as a Planned
Development.
   USE: Refers to any activities that take place on any parcel of land or
premises, whether in or outside of a structure.
   USE, CONDITIONAL: A use of land in the Village, as designated within each
Zoning District, allowed as long as the specified conditions related to that
use described in this Ordinance are met. Conditional Uses do not require public
hearing by or approval of the Plan Commission or Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   USE, PERMITTED: A use of land in the Village, as designated within each
Zoning District, allowed so long as it satisfies the standards and requirements
established in this Ordinance.
   USE, SPECIAL: A use of land in the Village, as designated within each Zoning
District, allowed only after a Special Use Permit has been issued following the
required hearing by the Plan Commission and approval of the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   VARIATION: A departure from strict conformance with regulations of this
Ordinance related to the area and dimensions of a lot and/or structure, which
may be granted by the Village due to special circumstances creating a unique
hardship that makes meeting the standards of this Ordinance otherwise not
feasible for the property owner.
   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT STORAGE AREA: An area, near or adjacent to a principal
structure, which is utilized for the temporary parking, housing or storage of
vehicles, accessory equipment and the like, used in the trade, industry or
business of the principal use of the premises.
   VEHICLE REPAIR/MAINTENANCE: Any building or part thereof where automotive
vehicles are painted, repaired, rebuilt or reconstructed for compensation.
Services may include, but are not limited to, windshield repair or replacement,
stereo installation, alarm installation or tire service and installation.
   VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITY: A business or use of property providing for
outdoor storage of vehicles related to long haul freight trucking and local
deliveries. Such facilities may or may not include accessory services related
to trucking operations, and limited freight transfer. This term does not
include truck freight terminals.
   VETERINARY CLINIC: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals, which may include overnight
veterinary care, but does not include boarding of animals.
   VIBRATION: The periodic displacement of the ground measured in inches.
   WAREHOUSING: The activity and facilities related to storage and distribution
of goods or products and supplies goods to other locations for resale, as well
as activities involving movement and storage of products, items or equipment of
other persons, companies or organizations.
   WEIGHTING NETWORK: A built-in filter in the Sound Level Meter which modifies
meter response at various frequencies to approximate the sensitivity
characteristics of the human ear.
   WHOLESALE SALES ESTABLISHMENT: Establishments or places of business
primarily engaged in selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial,
commercial, institutional, farm, construction contractors or professional
business users; or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or brokers in
buying merchandise for or selling merchandise to such persons or companies.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
      Small Wind System: A wind energy system that has a capacity of fifty (50)
kilowatts or less, a total height of sixty feet (60') or less, a blade diameter
of twenty feet (20') or less and one or more wind turbines.
      Wind Energy Conversion System: Equipment that converts and then stores or
transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy and includes any
base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer,
turbine, vane, wire, transmission line, transmission line pole or other
component used in the system.
      Total Height: The vertical distance from ground level to the tip of a
wind turbine blade when the tip is at its highest point.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA: Any structure or device designed for
the purpose of collecting or transmitting electromagnetic waves for telephonic,
radio, data, Internet or other communications, including appurtenant equipment
attached to a tower, building or similar structure for the purpose of providing
personal wireless services.
   YARD: The open space surrounding the principal or accessory building on any
lot, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of that building from the
ground to the sky except where specifically permitted by this Ordinance. Yards
are further defined as follows.
      Front Yard: That portion of the yard extending the full width of the lot,
between the side lot lines, and measured between the front property line and a
parallel line tangent to the nearest part of the principal or accessory
building.
      Required Front Yard Setback: That portion of the yard extending the full
width of the lot, between the side lot lines, and measured between the front
property line and the front setback line.
      Rear Yard: That portion of the yard extending the full width of the lot,
between the side lot lines, and measured between the rear property line and a
parallel line tangent to the nearest part of the principal or accessory
building.
      Required Rear Yard Setback: That portion of the yard extending the full
width of the lot, between the side lot lines, and measured between the rear
property line and the rear setback line.
      Side Yard: Those portions of the yard extending from the front yard to
the rear yard and measured between the side property lines and a parallel line
tangent to the nearest part of the principal or accessory building.
      Required Side Yard Setback: Those portions of the yard extending from the
front yard to the rear yard and measured between the side property lines and
side setback lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2118.png]
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: Village official responsible for administering the
various elements of the Zoning Ordinance. This includes, but is not limited to,
granting zoning certificates and interpreting zoning regulations. As it relates
to this Ordinance, the Director of Community Development is the Zoning
Administrator.
   ZONING DISTRICT: A section of Elk Grove Village established for which
regulations governing matters such as the use of buildings and premises, the
height of the buildings, the size of yards and intensity of use are consistent.
   ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this Ordinance, and made a
part hereof, that identify the various Zoning Districts of the Village.
CHAPTER 3: GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
3-1   Compliance with Other Regulations
   
3-2   Lots and Yards
   
3-3   Fences
   
3-4   Accessory Uses
   
3-5   Wireless Telecommunications Antennas
   
3-6   Sustainable Energy Systems
   
3-7   Principal Buildings and Structures
   
3-8   Outdoor Storage
   
3-9   Outdoor Sales and Displays
   
3-10   Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
3-11   Community Residences
   
3-12   Small Wireless Facilities
   
3-13   Bee Keeping
   
3-14   Residential Zoning Districts – Lighting Fixture Design
§ 3-1 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   3-1-A. Comprehensive Plan:
      The Comprehensive Plan shall provide a guide in the approval of all
development under this Zoning Ordinance and the Elk Grove Village Subdivision
Control Ordinance.
   3-1-B. Subdivision Control Ordinance:
      In all cases where land is divided for the purpose of development or
where Planned Development is proposed, the platting provisions of the Elk Grove
Village Subdivision Control Ordinance, as applicable, shall apply in addition
to the provisions hereof.
   3-1-C. Floodplain Regulations:
      No building, structure or use shall be made of any property in a
floodplain except as provided by floodplain regulations which shall be as
established by the Village.
   3-1-D. Zoning Certificate:
      1.   Definition: A certification issued by the Zoning Administrator
confirming that as presented to the Village, the pending occupancy of a use is
in keeping with the requirements of this Zoning Ordinance, including but not
limited to land use type, parking regulations and compliance with environmental
performance standards.
      2.   Zoning Certificate Approval:
         a.   Prior to utilization of any premises, the property owner or their
authorized agent shall submit a Zoning Certificate application detailing the
nature of the proposed use, on forms approved by the Village Attorney. The
application shall include a certification that the proposed use conforms to all
standards of this Ordinance.
         b.   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall
conduct a review of relevant zoning standards within twenty-one (21) days, or
advise the proposed user as to reasons for refusal of issuing the certificate,
need for additional information or reasons for any delay.
         c.   A Zoning Certificate shall be valid only so long as said use is
made of the premises for that which the information submitted to obtain same is
accurate and complete. The Village shall not be prevented by the issuance of
the certification from terminating same if the use made of the premises is not
in conformity with the certificate, Village Ordinances or Village Codes.
         d.   The fee for the Zoning Certificate review and issuance shall be
as established from time to time by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, plus such
additional out of pocket costs reasonably incurred should outside consultants,
testing facilities or the like be necessary.
   3-1-E. Regulations Relating to Chicago-O’Hare International Airport:
      No structure shall exceed applicable height limits established by the
most current State of Illinois airport approach plan for O’Hare International
Airport, or any successor plan.
§ 3-2 LOTS AND YARDS.
   3-2-A. Sight Triangle Clearance:
      1.   No building or structure hereafter erected and no planting or other
obstruction to the vision of drivers of motor vehicles shall be located: In any
Zoning District, exceeding a height of two feet (2') above the street grade
within twenty-five feet (25') of the intersecting lot lines bordering corner
lots.
      2.   A sight triangle of ten feet (10'), with the same requirements as
Subsection 3-2-A-1, shall be maintained for all situations in which a driveway
or alley intersects with a road.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2120.png]
   3-2-B. Front Yards for Corner and Double Frontage Lots:
      Corner lots and double frontage lots, on both adjacent streets, shall
meet the front yard regulations of the Zoning District in which they are
located.
   3-2-C. Application of Yard Requirements to One Building Only:
      No part of a yard requirement for any building may be included as
fulfilling the yard requirements for an adjacent building.
   3-2-D. Structures in Yards:
      1.   Principal and attached accessory structures shall not be located in
any required yard as indicated in Table 7.1 unless specifically noted in this
Chapter.
      2.   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky,
unobstructed, except:
         a.   Ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, roof eaves,
gutters and ornamental features projecting not more than one foot (1') in the
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, A-1, A-2, A-3, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-5, O-T and ITC Zoning
Districts.
         b.   The same projections shall be allowed not exceeding three feet
(3') in the I-1 and I-2 Zoning Districts.
   3-2-E. Detached Accessory Structures in Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   Two residential accessory structures are permitted per lot,
consisting of:
         a.   One (1) shed up to one hundred fifty (150') square feet in size
and twelve feet (12') in height;
         b.   One (1) detached garage up to six hundred (600') square feet,
with no individual side of the structure exceeding twenty-five feet (25') in
length;
         c.   In lieu of a detached garage, one (1) accessory structure up to
six hundred (600') square feet with no individual side exceeding twenty-five
feet (25') in length is allowed.
      2.   Shall have a maximum height of fifteen feet (15') measured from
finished grade to the highest point of the structure, unless otherwise
regulated;
      3.   Shall not be located closer than sixty feet (60') to the front lot
line or any lot line along a street;
      4.   Shall not be located within the required side yard;
      5.   Shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required rear
yard area;
      6.   Shall not be closer than six feet (6') to the rear lot line or the
side lot line unless greater restrictions are required by easement. Except that
sheds:
         a.   Shall be a minimum of sixty feet (60') from the front lot line;
         b.   Shall be located behind the rear line of the principal structure;
and
         c.   Shall be no closer than two feet (2') to the side lot line or
five feet (5') to the rear lot line; unless greater restrictions are required
by easements.
      7.   A shed having a pitched roof may include eaves, however such shall
not extend greater than two (2') feet from the side of the structure.
   3-2-F. Detached Accessory Structures in Non-Residential Zoning Districts:
      1.   Shall have a maximum height of twenty feet (20') measured from
finished grade to the highest point of the structure;
      2.   Shall have a minimum size of five hundred (500') square feet; and
      3.   Shall have a maximum size of fifty percent (50%) of the principal
structure.
   3-2-G. Use of Yards for Vehicles:
      1.   Residential Districts:
         a.   Parking pads are not permitted in front yards; except if, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, the parking pad located in the front
yard results from, and is the continuation of, a previously approved existing
driveway, where the parking pad exists from the conversion of a garage to
living space that said driveway accessed and the garage is no longer used for
vehicle parking, and no other driveway is located on or constructed on the
property.
         b.   Parking pads that result from a previous or new conversion of a
garage to living space, where there is a driveway to an existing or new garage
elsewhere on the lot, shall have the driveway, apron and curb cut leading to
the converted living space removed and the area restored to sod, or as directed
by the Zoning Administrator.
         c.   No motorized vehicles, trailer and tow type vehicles, boats or
similar devices shall be parked or stored in any side or rear yard, unless the
vehicle or boat is located on a parking pad meeting the following:
            i.   Dimensions of the parking pad are one (1') foot greater than
the overall dimensions of the vehicle or boat;
            ii.   The parking pad cannot be located closer than five (5') feet
to the adjacent single-family residential lot;
            iii.   The parking pad cannot extend beyond the nearest rear edge
of the principal structure; and
            iv.   The parking pad can be located adjacent to the principal
structure on the single-family residential lot in which the vehicle or boat is
parked however no portion of the vehicle or boat may overhang the parking pad
on the side abutting the neighboring single-family residential lot.
         d.   Parking and storage of recreational and non-recreational vehicles
shall be in accordance with Sections 6-3-6-8 and 6-3-6-9 of the Village Code.
      2.   Business Districts:
         a.   Operable motor vehicles may be parked on hard surfaced areas in
front, side and rear yard areas of lots in a business Zoning District, provided
that such vehicle is accessory and related to the operation of a business on
said property.
         b.   There shall be no parking or storage of vehicles on driveways or
access lanes. No vehicle shall be permitted to be parked in the same location
for a period of time in excess of seven (7) days.
         c.   Trailer and tow type vehicles accessory and related to the
operation of the business on said property are permitted in side and rear yards
only.
      3.   Industrial Districts:
      Operable motor vehicles, tow type vehicles and semi-trailers may use
required yards in any industrial Zoning District provided that such vehicle is
accessory and related to the operation of a business on said property as
follows:
         a.   For loading and unloading of vehicles in required front yard,
side yard or rear yard areas on hard surfaced areas;
         b.   There shall be no loading or unloading activity on driveways or
access lanes which provide access to other portions of the site;
         c.   Any loading area situated in the front yard, for which a Building
Permit is received after the adoption of this Ordinance, shall be at least
eighty feet (80') from the street right-of-way property line;
         d.   Parking or storing of vehicles may occur in required side yards
or rear yards on a hard surfaced area;
         e.   There shall be no parking or storing of any vehicle on driveways
or access lanes which provide access to other portions of the site; and
         f.   No parking or storage is permitted in the required twenty-five
foot (25') front yard setback.
      4.   Parking Surface for Vehicular Areas:
      In all Zoning Districts, the parking or storing of motorized, tow type or
operable vehicles, boats or similar devices within any portion of any lot,
while not allowed in required yards and as otherwise regulated in this
Ordinance, shall be permitted only on hard surfaced areas.
   3-2-H. Private Swimming Pools:
      1.   Swimming Pools shall be allowed in any residential Zoning District
and only as accessory to a principal residence.
      2.   No swimming pool or appurtenance thereto constructed in the ground
or located above ground shall be located in any required front yard, nor within
the required side yard adjacent to a neighboring principal structure, nor
within eight feet (8') of a side or rear lot line unless greater restrictions
are required by easements or covenants.
§ 3-3 FENCES.
   All fences shall meet the requirements of this Section.
   3-3-A. Fence standards applicable in all Zoning Districts:
      1.   Fences may be located along the property line of a lot or within
required yard areas, except as otherwise regulated by this Section (as shown in
Figure 3-1: A).
      2.   Fences shall not be constructed in any front yard or in front of the
principal structure, except as otherwise permitted by this Ordinance (as shown
in Figure 3-1: A).
      3.   Fences may be located along the side and rear lot lines except as
otherwise regulated by this Ordinance (as shown in Figure 3-1: A).
      4.   Double Frontage Lots: On double frontage lots where the rear yard
abuts a public street, fences shall be permitted along the rear property line
on private property (as shown in Figure 3-1: B).
      5.   Corner and Triple Frontage Lots:
         a.   Fences located along the corner side property line and between
the front edge of the house and the rear property line, may not exceed six feet
(6') in height, nor be located closer than three feet (3') to said corner side
property line (as shown in Figure 3-1: C), except that no fence may be located
in a sight triangle clearance or as to otherwise obstruct the views of drivers
or pedestrians so as to create an unsafe condition.
         b.   On triple frontage lots where the rear yard abuts a public
street, fences shall be permitted along the rear property line on private
property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2122.png]
      6.   Fences Around Swimming Pools: Fences constructed so as to prevent
unauthorized ingress shall be required around swimming pools.
      7.   Prohibited Fences: Barbed wire and electrically charged wire are
prohibited; except as otherwise specified in this Ordinance.
      8.   Non-Conforming Fences: All fences heretofore lawfully constructed as
of the date of this Ordinance being adopted and not in conformity herewith
shall be deemed non conforming. Such fences may be replaced or repaired to the
standard at which they were originally built; except that all fences shall meet
the sight triangle clearance requirements specified in Section 3-2-A.
   3-3-B. Fence standards permitted in all Residential Districts:
      1.   Fences may be erected not to exceed six feet (6') above ground
level;
      2.   No fence shall extend beyond the nearest front corner of the
principal building located on the lot where the fence is installed nor beyond a
line extended from the nearest front corner of the principal building located
on an adjacent single-family residential lot (as shown in Figure 3-1); and
      3.   An eight-foot (8') fence is permitted along the street side property
lines abutting one of the following Major Arterial Streets: Arlington Heights
Road, Devon Avenue, Higgins Road, Meacham Road, Nerge Road, Rohlwing Road or
Plum Grove Road and the following Collector Streets: Tonne Road, Biesterfield
Road and Wise Road.
   3-3-C. Fence standards in all Business, OT and ITC Districts:
      1.   Fences may be erected not to exceed six feet (6') above ground
level;
      2.   An eight-foot (8') fence shall be permitted when the above Zoning
Districts abut a residential zoned district;
      3.   All development located in the ITC Zoning District shall conform to
the fencing and screening requirements of the Innovation and Technology Center
Design Guidelines and Section 7-3-F-7(c) of this Ordinance; and
      4.   All development located in the Elk Grove Village Technology Park
shall conform to the fencing and screening requirements of the Elk Grove
Village Technology Park Design Guidelines.
   3-3-D. Fence standards permitted in all Industrial Districts:
      1.   Fences may be erected not to exceed eight feet (8') above ground
level;
      2.   A ten-foot (10') fence shall be permitted in an Industrial Zoning
District abutting residential zoned district; and
      3.   Fences that abut or are visible from public streets in the
Industrial Zoning Districts are required to be black in color;
      4.   Prohibited Fences: Barbed wire and electrically charged wire are
prohibited; except that barbed wire may be used on the top of permitted fences
in the Industrial Zoning Districts; provided that:
         a.   No barbed wire extension on top of a permitted fence may exceed
eighteen inches (18") and
         b.   No barbed wire extension on top of a permitted fence may be
permitted on fences abutting a public street or road right-of-way.
   3-3-E. Conditions for fences related to Data Center Facilities:
      1.   Fences may be erected not to exceed eight feet (8') above ground
level;
      2.   Fences which abut streets shall be provided with brick columns,
matching the principal structure façade, no more than every seventy-five feet
(75');
      3.   Fences are permitted in the front yard or ahead of the principal
structure however no fencing is permitted to be installed parallel within
utility and drainage easements; and
      4.   Fences shall be black wrought iron or similar design as approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
§ 3-4 ACCESSORY USES.
   All accessory uses shall comply with the standards of this Section, as well
as any other relevant sections of this Ordinance.
   3-4-A. Home Occupations:
   Home Occupations shall be allowed as a Conditional Use and only as an
accessory use to permitted residential use. Home Occupations shall comply with
the following conditions:
      1.   No more than twenty (20%) percent of the total square footage of the
principal structure may be used for the home occupation;
      2.   No more than twenty (20%) percent of the total square footage of any
accessory structure may be used for the home occupation;
      3.   No exterior evidence that gives the appearance of a home occupation
shall be permitted, including but not limited to exterior signage;
      4.   A maximum of one vehicle related to the home occupation shall be
allowed to be parked on the property;
      5.   No employees, other than residents of the premises, shall work at or
report to work at the premises, either for work to be done there or to be
dispatched from there;
      6.   No materials or equipment related to construction, services or other
business functions may be located on the site, except when:
         a.   Within completely enclosed structures as otherwise permitted by
this Chapter; or
         b.   Within a permitted, completely enclosed truck or trailer for
transporting equipment or materials between jobs. The work vehicle permitted
per this Subsection shall meet all other parking and storage requirements of
this Ordinance.
      7.   No more than one pupil, client or customer may be present at the
same time;
      8.   Automotive repair, as all or part of a home occupation, shall be
prohibited;
      9.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would be normally expected in a residential neighborhood;
      10.   Home occupations do not require permit or zoning approval from the
Village; and
      11.   All relevant Village regulations, including but not limited to
those regarding noise and nuisance apply to home occupations.
§ 3-5 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS.
   Regulation of Wireless Telecommunications Antennas shall be per the Village
of Elk Grove Antenna Siting Policy, dated 2001 and adopted by Village
Resolution 22-01. Said Resolution and Policy, as may from time to time be
amended, are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Zoning Ordinance.
§ 3-6 SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   3-6-A. Solar Energy Systems (SES):
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to encourage safe and
efficient use of solar energy and reduce the use and impact of fossil fuels.
The Section also seeks to ensure that Solar Energy Systems are compatible in
character and appearance with the principal structure and surrounding area in
which they are located.
      2.   General Provisions:
         a.   SES are permitted as an accessory structure mounted to a
principal or other accessory structure;
         b.   SES shall be subject to the development standards specified in
this Section and other Village Code requirements;
         c.   Energy produced by SES shall be used on-site, except that surplus
energy may be delivered to the power grid;
         d.   Solar panels may only be located on the roof of a structure and
shall be mounted flush with the slope of the roof;
         e.   Solar shingles are permitted and shall be integral to the roof of
the structure on which they are installed;
         f.   Solar collection devices may not extend beyond the roof edge or
the exterior perimeter of a structure;
         g.   Solar collection devices may not be located on the vertical
portion of a mansard roof; and
         h.   SES shall be subject to the yard, height and any other bulk
requirements of the Zoning District in which it is located.
         i.   Abandonment: If a SES is inoperable or abandoned for a period of
six (6) consecutive months; the owner may be notified by the Village that the
energy system must either be repaired or removed within an established cure
period.
      3.   Appearance and Materials: SES shall be neutral in color and
generally matching the roof color of the principal or accessory structure. All
such devices shall have the following characteristics:
         a.   Not be plastic or other non-UV stable material;
         b.   Include frames, where applicable, of anodized aluminum or painted
steel;
         c.   Where devices are encased with glass, the glass shall be non-
reflective tempered glass; and
         d.   Solar panels must be placed so that concentrated solar radiation
or glare is not directed onto any nearby properties or roadways.
      4.   Height: SES shall be subject to the following height requirements:
         a.   SES shall not exceed the maximum structure height requirements
for the Zoning District in which they are located;
         b.   SES on sloped roofs shall not exceed the highest point of roof on
which they are mounted;
         c.   SES located on sloped roof buildings shall not extend beyond one
foot (1') above the roof surface at any point in residential Zoning Districts
and fifteen inches (15") for all other Zoning Districts; and
         d.   SES located on flat roofed buildings shall not extend beyond two
feet (2') in overall height above the roof on which they are mounted in
residential Zoning Districts or three feet (3') in all other Zoning Districts.
   3-6-B. Wind Energy Systems (WES):
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to encourage safe and
efficient use of wind energy and reduce the use and impact of fossil fuels. The
Section also seeks to ensure that Wind Energy Systems are compatible in
character and appearance with the principal structure and surrounding area in
which they are located.
      2.   General Provisions:
         a.   WES are permitted as an accessory structure to a principal
Permitted, Conditional or Special Use subject to the standards of this Section
and the Village Code;
         b.   No more than one WES is permitted per residential zoning lot;
         c.   No more than one WES is permitted per Business, OT, ITC or
Industrial zoned properties, unless approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees
as a Special Use;
         d.   WES may be permitted on a Business, OT, ITC or Industrial zoned
property adjacent to a residential zoning lot only upon approval by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees as a Special Use;
         e.   WES structures shall comply with all Building Code, Environmental
Performance Standards, Nuisance Regulations and other regulations of the
Village Code regarding their construction, design, operation and maintenance;
         f.   Energy produced by WES shall be used on-site, except that surplus
energy may be delivered to the power grid;
         g.   WES shall be designed to withstand a minimum wind velocity of one
hundred (100) miles per hour, with an impact pressure of forty (40) pounds per
square foot;
         h.   As part of a Building Permit submitted for a WES, a statement and
evidence shall be provided by the applicant that the proposed WES will not
adversely impact adjacent properties;
         i.   In no event shall the noise level produced by a WES continuously
exceed sixty-five (65) decibels as measured at the property line;
         j.   No WES shall cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of
other electromagnetic radiators, receptors or generators of quality and proper
design. The Village may revoke any permit for a WES system should
electromagnetic interference from the WES be evident and cannot be corrected;
         k.   WES shall not be artificially lighted, except to the extent
required by the FAA or other applicable government authority;
         l.   All WES shall have an automatic braking, governing or feathering
system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, over-speeding and excessive pressure
on the tower structure, rotor blades and turbine components; and
         m.   Abandonment: If a WES is inoperable or abandoned for a period of
six (6) consecutive months; the owner may be notified by the Village that the
energy system must either be repaired or removed within an established cure
period.
      3.   Rooftop Mounted WES:
         a.   Shall be set back at least twenty feet (20') from front building
lines, and at least ten feet (10') from side building lines. Setbacks shall be
measured to the widest point of blade rotation or to the side of the WES,
whichever is greater.
         b.   Shall be limited to a height of no more than fifteen feet (15')
above the roof peak or top of the roof, in the case of a flat roof. Total
height shall be measured from the highest point of blade rotation or the
highest point of the WES, whichever is greater.
      4.   Ground Mounted WES:
         a.   Shall be allowed only in Industrial Zoning Districts, after
having received approval as a Special Use;
         b.   Shall be permitted only in a rear yard;
         c.   The WES tower or any associated structure shall comply with the
minimum setback requirements of the Zoning District in which the WES is located
or be set back a distance equal to one point one (1.1) times the total height
of the structure from any property line, whichever distance is greater. Total
structure height shall be measured from the highest point of blade rotation to
the ground;
         d.   Shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet (20') from any
principal structure on the property;
         e.   Shall not exceed seventy feet (70') in height;
         f.   Rotor blades or airfoils must maintain at least twelve feet (12')
of clearance between their lowest point of rotation and the ground;
         g.   All climbing apparatus affixed to a WES tower shall terminate
twelve feet (12') short of ground level;
         h.   All WES facilities shall be surrounded by a six foot (6') high
safety fence; and
         i.   All WES towers shall be constructed with an approved concrete
foundation.
§ 3-7 PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Unless part of a Planned Development project, one and only one principal
building or structure and a permitted accessory structure shall be erected on
any lot of record on any conforming lot.
§ 3-8 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   3-8-A. The outdoor storage of materials, goods and products not contained in
a permanent structure is permitted in the I-1 and I-2 Industrial Zoning
Districts in side or rear yards if completely screened from public view and no
closer than fifteen feet (15') to any structure, subject to such other
provisions as hereafter set forth.
   3-8-B. The outdoor storage of uncontained bulk materials which have a
tendency to become windborne such as powder, grain, stone, sand and coal are
prohibited.
   3-8-C. Storage of any trucks, semitrailers or any similar equipment or
vehicles not directly affiliated with the principal use are not included as
part of outdoor storage and are prohibited under this Ordinance.
   3-8-D. Storage Containers:
      1.   Definition of placement: For the purposes of this Section, placement
shall mean the locating of a storage container for a continuous period of
twelve (12) hours or more.
      2.   Residential Zoning Districts: The placement of one (1) storage
container in Residential Zoning Districts shall be permitted for ten (10) days
twice a year.
      3.   Business Zoning Districts: The placement of storage containers in
any Business Zoning District shall be prohibited.
      4.   Industrial Zoning Districts: The placement of storage containers in
Industrial Zoning Districts shall be permitted provided that storage
containers:
         a.   Shall be located a minimum of sixty feet (60') from the front lot
line or behind the rear line of the principal structure, whichever is more
restrictive;
         b.   Do not exceed a height of ten feet (10');
         c.   Do not cover, block or hinder use of parking spaces and drive
aisles; and
         d.   May not be located in any easement.
      5.   Exceptions for Construction: For properties where an active Building
Permit has been issued by the Village for a single-family dwelling, one (1)
storage container may be placed on the property, in a location approved by the
Zoning Administrator as found to be safe for those on and near the site.
Storage containers used for construction purposes must be immediately removed
upon completion of the construction project.
§ 3-9 OUTDOOR SALES AND DISPLAYS.
   3-9-A. Outdoor display of goods may be conducted in the B-1, B-2, B-3 and B-
5 Zoning Districts. Such displays shall be located so as to ensure safe and
secure use of properties and shall not create a nuisance or safety hazard as
defined in the Village Code. A permit for outdoor displays is not required,
except for the B-5 Zoning District, which requires approval by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
   3-9-B. Outdoor sales of items may be permitted on private property when
items sold are related to the principal commercial use or conducted for a
seasonal item and sales conducted with permission of the owner. Outdoor Sales
on a property are limited to no more than a continuous forty-five (45) day
period, no more than two (2) times per calendar year. Outdoor sales require
Village approval.
   3-9-C. Any outdoor sales in the B-5 Zoning District require permission of
the Mayor and Board of Trustees, as outlined in this Ordinance.
§ 3-10 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The following regulations shall apply to Sexually Oriented Businesses:
   3-10-A. Definitions:
      1.   EMPLOYEE: A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. A person may be
considered an employee under this definition even if said person is an
independent contractor, provided that said person has a substantial or
consistent relationship with the business of, or entertainment/services
provided by, the sexually oriented business.
      2.   ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
         a.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as
a new business;
         b.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
         c.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented or nonsexually oriented business; or
         d.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
      3.   LICENSED PREMISES: Any premises that requires a license and that is
classified as a sexually oriented business under this Chapter.
      4.   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually
oriented business has been issued as well as each individual listed as an
applicant on the application for a permit. LINGERIE MODELING BUSINESS: Any
place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or seminudity or in
lingerie is provided to be observed by other persons who pay money or any form
of consideration.
      5.   NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state
of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” as defined herein is
provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed,
videotaped or similarly depicted by any other person or persons who pay money
or any form of consideration for such observation, sketching, drawing,
painting, photography or videotaping.
      6.   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance, or to simulate the
appearance, of a human bare buttock, anus, pubic area, anal cleft or cleavage,
male genitals, female genitals or the female breast. “Nudity or state of
nudity” shall not mean nor include a person who appears in a state of nudity in
a modeling class operated:
         a.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of Illinois; a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
or
         b.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
         c.   In a structure which: a) has no sign visible from the exterior of
the structure and no other advertising that indicates a nude person is
available for viewing; and b) where, in order to participate in a class, a
student must enroll at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and c)
where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one time.
      7.   PHYSICAL CULTURE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment which offers,
provides or advertises massage, body rubs or physical contact with specified
anatomical areas, regardless of whether or not said establishment has received
a sexually oriented business permit under this Ordinance. Establishments which
routinely provide medical services by State licensed medical practitioners,
electrolysis treatment by permitted operators of electrolysis equipment and
massage by licensed massage therapists shall be excluded from the definition of
adult physical culture establishments. It is not the intent of this definition
to regulate matters of massage establishments which are licensed and regulated
by the State of Illinois Department of Professional Regulation, or by the
Village as a licensed massage establishment.
      8.   SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: A state of dress in which clothing covers no
more than the genitals, pubic region and the areola or nipple of the female
breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      9.   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A sexually oriented business or similar
commercial enterprise that, as one of its primary business purposes, offers for
any form of consideration:
         a.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         b.   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons are in a state of nudity or
seminudity;
         c.   Any commercial establishment or business not otherwise defined
herein where any individual, employee, operator or owner works or performs in a
seminude state.
      10.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED ARCADE: Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
not more than one person per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined
herein.
      11.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BOOKSTORE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED VIDEO STORE OR
SEXUALLY ORIENTED NOVELTY STORE: A commercial establishment which, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
         a.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions,
slides, computer disks or other visual representations which are characterized
by depictions or descriptions of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” as defined herein; or
         b.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities” as defined herein.
         c.   The term “principal business purpose” shall include any such
commercial establishment which:
            i.   Derives twenty-five percent (25%) or more of its gross monthly
revenues from the sale or rental of the inventory and/or materials described in
Subsections a and/or b of this definition; or
            ii.   Has as twenty-five percent (25%) or more of its stock-in-
trade the inventory and/or materials described in Subsections a and/or b of
this definition; or
            iii.   Devotes twenty-five percent (25%) or more of its interior
business area to the sale or rental of the inventory and/or materials described
in Subsections a and/or b of this definition; or
            iv.   Devotes twenty-five percent (25%) or more of its advertising
to the sale or rental of the inventory and/or materials described in
Subsections a and/or b of this definition.
            v.   Does not meet one or more of the criteria in the preceding
Subsections i through iv of this definition, but does offer for sale or rental
the inventory and/or materials described in the preceding Subsections a and b
of this definition in a manner which demonstrates that the sale or rental of
the aforesaid materials is a principal business purpose.
               1.   A commercial establishment may have other principal
business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of
material characterized by depictions or descriptions of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined herein and still be
categorized as a sexually oriented bookstore, sexually oriented video store or
sexually oriented novelty store. Such other business purposes will not serve to
exempt such commercial establishments from being categorized as a sexually
oriented bookstore, sexually oriented video store or sexually oriented novelty
store so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering for
sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the specified
materials characterized by depictions or descriptions of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined herein.
      12.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: A sexually oriented arcade, sexually
oriented bookstore, sexually oriented video store or sexually oriented novelty
store, sexually oriented cabaret, sexually oriented motion picture theater,
sexually oriented theater, physical culture establishment, lingerie modeling
business, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
      13.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial
establishment where for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are regularly
shown which are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined herein.
      14.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in
a state of nudity or seminudity or live performances which are characterized by
the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual
activities” as defined herein.
      15.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
         a.   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            i.   Human genitals or pubic region; or
            ii.   Buttock; or
            iii.   Areola or nipple of the female breast, or
            iv.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      16.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
         a.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
         b.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast(s); or
         c.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including, but not limited to,
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy and also including as examples, but not
limited to, any of the following: acts of human anilingus, bestiality, buggery,
cunnilingus, coprophagy, coprophilia, fellatio, flagellation, masochism,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sadism, sado-masochism, sapphism, urolagnia
or zooerasty; or
         d.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         e.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in Subsections a through d of this definition.
      17.   STRADDLE DANCE (ALSO KNOWN AS A LAP DANCE): The use by an employee
of a sexually oriented business of any part of his/her body to touch the
genital or pubic area of a person, or to touch the breast(s) of a female
person, whether clothed or unclothed, while at the business; or the touching of
the genital or pubic area of an employee by a person while at the business; or
the touching of the breast(s) of a female employee, whether clothed or
unclothed, by a person while at the business. It shall be a “straddle dance”
regardless of whether the “touch” or “touching” occurs while the employee is
clothed, nude, seminude or displaying or exposing any specified anatomical
area. It shall also be a “straddle dance” regardless of whether the “touch” or
“touching” is direct or through a medium.
   3-10-B: Additional Regulations for Sexually Oriented Businesses in B-
2 Zoning Districts: As a Conditional Use in the B-2 Zoning District, Sexually
Oriented Businesses shall be subject to the following:
         a.   A sexually oriented business is a Conditional Use in the portions
of the B-2 Zoning
District east of Busse Road and south of Landmeier Road, provided no such use
shall be established, or maintained within a premises which is located within
five hundred feet (500') of:
            i.   A religious institution;
            ii.   A school;
            iii.   A boundary of a residential district as shown by the
Village’s Official Zoning Map;
            iv.   A public park as shown by the Village’s Official Zoning Map;
            v.   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; and
            vi.   Another sexually oriented business whether such other
business is or is not within the corporate limits of the Village;
            vii.   For the purposes of this Subsection, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a religious institution or school, or to the
nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential district or
residential lot;
            viii.   For purposes of this Subsection, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located;
            ix.   Sexually oriented businesses are prohibited in all other
Zoning Districts and locations other than the areas set forth in this
Subsection.
   3-10-C. Additional Regulations for Sexually Oriented Businesses in B-
3 Zoning Districts: As a Conditional Use in the B-3 Zoning District, Sexually
Oriented Businesses shall be subject to the following:
         a.   A sexually oriented business is a Conditional Use in the portions
of the B-3 Zoning District east of Busse Road and south of Landmeier Road,
provided no such use shall be established, or maintained within a premises
which is located within five hundred feet (500') of:
            i.   A religious institution;
            ii.   A school;
            iii.   A boundary of a residential district as shown by the
Village’s Official Zoning Map;
            iv.   A public park as shown by the Village’s Official Zoning Map;
            v.   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; and
            vi.   Another sexually oriented business whether such other
business is or is not within the corporate limits of the Village;
            vii.   For the purposes of this Subsection, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a religious institution or school, or to the
nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential district or
residential lot;
            viii.   For purposes of this Subsection, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located;
            ix.   Sexually oriented businesses are prohibited in all other
Zoning Districts and locations other than the areas set forth in this
Subsection.
§ 3-11 COMMUNITY RESIDENCES.
   3-11-A: Licensure. Where a community residence or a community residence’s
operator is required to be licensed or certified by a State of Illinois agency
or department to operate a community residence, the applicant shall provide the
Village proof of such licensure or certification and maintain at all times a
current and valid license or certificate. The Zoning Administrator may revoke a
certificate of occupancy for a community residence if its license or
certification is revoked. A community residence that is not licensed or
certified by the State of Illinois may only be established if a Special Use
permit is approved in accordance with this Ordinance.
   3-11-B Occupancy. Full-time staff shall be included when determining the
number of individuals that may occupy a community residence pursuant to the
currently adopted Building Code by Elk Grove Village. For the purposes of this
Section, “full-time staff” shall mean staff that occupies the residence
overnight.
   3-11-C Location. No community residence may be located within six hundred
and sixty feet (660') of an existing or approved community residence, as
measured from lot line to lot line, except when a Special Use permit is
approved in accordance with this Ordinance.
§ 3-12 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   Small Wireless Facilities shall be regulated per Title 3, Chapter 18 of the
Elk Grove Village Code: Small Wireless Facilities, as amended from time to
time.
§ 3-13 BEE KEEPING.
   3-13-A. Beekeeping is only permitted for educational purposes and
environmental sustainability. Beekeeping which results or produces any form of
income is prohibited.
      a.   Applications for beekeeping shall be submitted to the Community
Development Department.
      b.   Beekeepers must register with the Illinois Department of Agriculture
and provide proof of registration to the Village with their application. All
beehives (Apiaries) shall be properly maintained.
      c.   Beehive Location:
            i.   Permitted in single-family residential zoning areas and must
be located in the rear yard;
            ii.   Beehives must be located no closer than two hundred and fifty
(250') feet to an adjacent single-family residential lot; and
            iii.   Beehives are prohibited in multi-family residence, business,
office and industrial zoning districts.
         d.   No more than four (4) beehives are permitted per site.
         e.   Signage:
            i.   Identification signs shall be conspicuous and weatherproof,
measuring at least ten inches (10") by one foot (1'), located on all lot lines
facing abutting properties, and within ten feet (10') of the beehive(s). The
signs shall contain the statement “State Registered Beehive(s) on Property”, or
similar language that makes it clear that bees are on the premises. The signs
must be visible and easily read from outside the property.
         f.   Nuisance:
            i.   Bees shall be considered a public nuisance when they interfere
with the normal use of private or public property, swarm or have shown unusual
aggressive behavior toward a person or animal. Every owner or person in charge
of, or in possession of, any property on which nuisance bees are present shall
proceed to remove said bees.
         g.   Penalty:
            i.   Any person violating the provisions of this policy shall be
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or continues to exist.
In addition to any such penalty, the Village may initiate such injunctive
relief as is necessary in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, including
the issuance of a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction, in
order to abate any such nuisance as is set forth.
§ 3-14 RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS – LIGHTING FIXTURE DESIGN.
   3-14-A. Lighting fixtures for security or aesthetics shall include glare
controls and shall be shielded. Floodlighting shall be shielded to prevent
glare for drivers or pedestrians, light trespass beyond the property line and
light above a ninety (90°) degree horizontal plane.
   3-14-B. Lighting fixtures should minimize glare by using recessed, shielded
or cut off fixtures, with a cut off angle of ninety (90°) degrees or less as
shown in Figure 3-2.
   3-14-C. Lighting on any structure shall be directed away from surrounding
properties.
   3-14-D. No light source shall cause illumination in excess of one (1) foot-
candle in residential zoning districts at any property lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2124.png]
CHAPTER 4: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Section
   
4-1   Purpose
   
4-2   Parking: General Applicability
   
4-3   Schedule of Parking Spaces
   
4-4   Loading: General Applicability
   
4-5   Loading Regulations and Requirements
   
4-6   Schedule of Loading Spaces
§ 4-1 PURPOSE.
   The off-street parking and loading standards in this Chapter are intended to
provide adequate parking facilities for associated land uses, ensure efficient
on-site circulation, limit traffic congestion on the public right-of-way,
support pedestrian-safety in parking areas, provide for the accessibility needs
of disabled persons, allow flexible parking standards to support environmental
sustainability and economic development and provide adequate on-site bicycle
parking facilities, where applicable.
§ 4-2 PARKING: GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   Off-street parking shall be provided and maintained as the joint
responsibility of the property owner and operator of a use on said property.
The owner and operator shall provide sufficient off-street parking for
employees, customers, guests and others. Public rights-of-way are intended for
the orderly movement of vehicles and pedestrians, any parking that may be
available on a nearby public street shall not be counted toward that required
by this Ordinance. All off-street parking shall be maintained as hereinafter
required.
   4-2-A. Zoning Districts: The provisions for off-street parking specified in
this Chapter shall apply to all Zoning Districts.
   4-2-B. New Buildings: All buildings constructed after the effective date of
this Ordinance shall provide for parking that conforms to the standards of
Section 4-3: Schedule of Parking Spaces, as listed in Table 4-3.
   4-2-C. Existing Buildings: For existing buildings and land uses, the
following provisions shall apply.
      1.   Time of Construction: The minimum number of parking spaces required
for an existing building or use of land at the time its Building Permit was
issued shall apply in cases of existing Buildings and uses, even if they are
less than required in this Chapter.
      2.   Expansions: Any structure or use of land that is expanded or changed
shall provide parking for the increment of expansion only. Parking for such
expansion or change of land use shall be provided for the incremental as if it
was a new use, established after the effective date of this Ordinance.
      3.   Change in Land Use: Where the land use of an existing building in
any Business, OT, ITC or Industrial Zoning District changes, the parking
standards for the new land use shall apply. Except that:
         a.   If the parking standard of the new land use requires that
additional parking be provided; and
         b.   The property owner provides evidence that the site cannot
accommodate or be reconfigured to accommodate the required parking; or
         c.   The Zoning Administrator may reduce or waive the requirement for
additional parking based on consideration of parking utilization data provided
by the applicant, circumstances unique to the business function of the use,
future reuse of the facility and comparable parking utilization data otherwise
collected by the Village.
   4-2-D. Type of Structure: Parking and loading spaces may be provided in
garages or in parking areas open to the sky; all parking provided shall conform
to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   4-2-E. Parking Setback: No vehicle parking may be located within the twenty-
five foot (25') front yard setback in Industrial Zoning Districts.
   4-2-F. Off-Site Parking:
      1.   All required parking for uses in a Residential Zoning District shall
be provided on the same property as the building or use it serves.
      2.   In all Business and Office Districts, the Zoning Administrator may
approve private parking facilities located on a separate property than the
principal use in keeping with the following requirements:
         a.   The Zoning Administrator determines that the path from the off-
street parking to the principal structure is safe and efficient for
pedestrians;
         b.   Off-site parking facilities shall be no further than five hundred
feet (500') from the property line of the property containing the principal
use, at their closest point;
         c.   No portion of separate parking facilities shall be separated by a
public street.
      3.   In all Industrial Districts, the Zoning Administrator may approve
private parking facilities on a separate property than the principal use in
keeping with the following requirements.
         a.   The Zoning Administrator determines that the path from the off-
street parking to the principal structure is safe and efficient for
pedestrians.
         b.   Off-site parking facilities shall be no further than one thousand
feet (1,000') from the property line of the property containing the principal
use, at their closest point.
      4.   Control of off-site parking facilities: When required off-street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than the lot on which the principal
use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either by deed or
long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use.
   4-2-G. Units of Measure: For purposes of this Chapter, the following units
of measurement shall apply.
      1.   Dwelling Unit: Dwelling unit refers to that dwelling accommodation
within a building designed for one individual or family unit maintaining
separate and independent housekeeping.
      2.   Seat or Bench: A seat shall be the space intended for one
individual. In places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews or
similar seating facilities, each eighteen inches (18") of seating facilities
shall be counted as one seat.
      3.   Employees: Employees shall be based on the maximum number of persons
on a duty shift on the premises at any one time.
      4.   Fractions: When the required number of off-street parking spaces
results in a fractional space, any fraction less than one-half (0.5) may be
disregarded, while a fraction of one half (0.5) or greater shall be counted as
one parking space.
   4-2-H. Shared Parking: Shared parking is an arrangement whereby parking
requirements on two (2) or more properties or uses of land may use the same
off-street parking spaces to satisfy their off-street parking requirements.
Shared parking arrangements may be considered by the Village under the
following circumstances.
      1.   Sharing of Space: No use shall be considered as individually
providing off-street parking which is shared with one or more other user unless
the schedule of operations of such uses does not conflict for the same space
and there are sufficient parking spaces for both users.
      2.   Alternative Parking Plan Required for Shared Parking: Applicants
wishing to use shared parking as a means of satisfying parking requirements
shall submit an Alternative Parking Plan that clearly demonstrates the
feasibility of shared parking. It shall address, at minimum, the size and type
of the proposed development, the composition of tenants, the anticipated rate
of parking turnover and the anticipated peak parking and traffic loads for all
uses that will be sharing parking spaces.
      3.   Application Procedures for Alternative Parking:
         a.   All applications for an Alternative Parking Plan shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator by the property owners of all involved properties
and shall include an Alternative Parking Plan design.
         b.   Upon approval of an Alternative Parking Plan by the Zoning
Administrator, a copy of such plan having been recorded with Cook or DuPage
County shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
      4.   Conditions of Plan: All Alternative Parking Plans recorded hereunder
shall be binding upon all applicants for such, their successors and assigns,
shall limit and control the issuance and validity of all permits and shall
restrict and limit the use and operation of all land and structures included
within such special plans to all conditions and limitations specified in such
plans and the approvals thereof.
      5.   Amendment of Plan: All Alternative Parking Plans recorded hereunder
may be amended pursuant to the limitations and requirements by which such plans
were approved. Application for amendment shall be made to and considered for
approval by the Zoning Administrator.
      6.   Withdrawal from Plan: Upon petition of all parties bound by an
approved Alternative Parking Plan, said parties may withdraw either partially
or completely from the Alternative Parking Plan as approved, provided parking
is available as required by this Zoning Ordinance and all remaining portions of
properties under the Alternative Parking Plan comply with all relevant
regulations of the Village. Application for withdrawal shall be made to the
Zoning Administrator for approval.
   4-2-I. Design, Development and Maintenance: Every parcel or portion of a
parcel of land used as a public or private parking area, automobile or trailer
sales lot and vehicle and equipment storage area shall be designed, developed
and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
      1.   Size and Configuration: Off-street parking spaces and drive areas
shall not be less than the dimensions set forth in Exhibit 4-1, entitled “Off-
Street Parking Chart”.
      2.   Surfacing:
         a.   All off-street parking areas shall be improved with an all-
weather material such as asphalt and concrete.
         b.   Parking and access areas shall be constructed such that all
applicable stormwater regulations of the Village and other jurisdictions are
met.
      3.   Screening and Landscaping: Off-street parking areas, in other than
single-family residential Zoning Districts, shall provide and maintain parking
lot landscaping as provided for in Section 11-4 Landscaping Requirements, of
this Ordinance or such other screening as may be determined by the Plan
Commission.
      4.   Entrances and Exits: All parcels shall be provided with entrances
and exits.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2126.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2128.png]
 
      5.   Perimeter Curbs: Barrier curbs are required around the perimeter of
all parking lots and interior landscape islands. Wheel stops may be permitted
in lieu of barrier curb at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator in cases
where property grade, safety concerns or proximity to a building make barrier
curbs a practical infeasibility.
      6.   Lighting:
         a.   All portions of any parking or drive area shall be Illuminated by
at least one- half (1/2) foot-candle of light.
         b.   No light shall be reflected on adjacent property in excess of one
foot-candle at the property line of said properties.
         c.   All lighting should minimize glare by using recessed, shielded or
cut off fixtures as shown in Figure 4-2, with a cut off angle of ninety (90°)
degrees or less as shown below in Figure 4-3.
         d.   All lights shall be extinguished no later than thirty (30)
minutes after the close of business being served by same, except for night
lighting, decorative lighting or protective security lighting.
         e.   No lighting shall be so placed as to hamper the vision of
motorists using the parking area or streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2130.png]
      7.   Use for Sale, Repair or Servicing of Vehicles: No property may be
used for the sale, repair, dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment,
materials or supplies, except when such use is a Permitted Principal,
Conditional or Special Use.
   4-2-J. Cross Access Between Adjacent Lots
      Where parking lots for separate uses abut one another and the opportunity
for connected cross-access exists, such access is encouraged. Cross-access
should be done in a logical manner that results in safe and efficient
circulation between adjacent parking areas.
   4-2-K. Land Banking for Future Parking. The Zoning Administrator may permit
land banking of up to twenty-five (25%) percent of the required parking spaces
provided that:
      1.   Sufficient evidence shall be provided by the applicant that supports
the reduced parking needs;
      2.   The area proposed for land banking of parking spaces shall be an
area suitable for parking at a future time;
      3.   Landscaping of the land banked area shall be in full compliance with
this Ordinance and, at a minimum, be landscaped with grass. Additional
landscaping of the land banked area may be required by the Zoning Administrator
as needed to screen adjacent properties with less intensive development;
      4.   The land banking area cannot be used for any other use. The land
banked parking area cannot be used to fulfill other landscaping requirements
within this Ordinance;
      5.   As part of the review, the applicant shall show the area to be land
banked on the site plan and marked as “Land Banked Future Parking”;
      6.   The Zoning Administrator at their sole discretion, on the basis of
increased parking demand for the use or provided parking proving to be
inadequate, may require the conversion of all or part of the land banked area
to off-street parking spaces; and
      7.   The property owner may convert the land banked area to parking with
prior notification to the Village, subject to all required permits.
   4-2-L. Parking Standards for Uses not Listed: The Zoning Administrator may
determine parking requirements of uses not specifically listed in the Schedule
of Parking Spaces Table 4-3. Such a decision shall be based on the requirements
for similar uses found either inside or outside the limits of the Village. At
their sole discretion, the Zoning Administrator may refer such a determination
to the Plan Commission.
   4-2-M. Bicycle Parking
      1.   Applicability: For properties within the Multi-Family, Business,
Office and ITC Zoning Districts designated bicycle parking spaces shall be
provided in accordance with the requirements of this Ordinance. Properties
requiring less than twenty-five (25) vehicle parking spaces are exempt from
this requirement.
      2.   Minimum Required Spaces: Bicycle parking facilities should be
provided at a rate of one bicycle space per twenty-five (25) vehicle parking
spaces with a minimum of space for four (4) bicycles and a maximum of ten (10)
spaces.
      3.   Location: Bicycle parking shall be conveniently located near
building entry points. Bicycle parking placement shall not conflict with
pedestrian travel or be located within any parking area or drive aisle.
      4.   Facility: Bicycle parking shall be provided using bicycle rack or
locker type parking facilities and shall be designed to allow either a bicycle
frame or wheels to be locked on a bicycle rack or locker structure. Such
structure shall be affixed securely to the ground. (See Figure 4-4.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2132.png]
   4-2-N. Accessible Parking
      ADA Compliance: All off-street parking facilities must comply with the
current State of Illinois Accessibility Code and the current federal ADA
regulations concerning the number and design of accessible vehicle parking
spaces required in parking lots and structures.
   4-2-O. Residential Visitor Parking Spaces. All residential developments
listed in Table 4-2 shall provide off-street visitor parking spaces, in
addition to the parking required for the residents, as indicated in Table 4-3.
For uses not indicated in the Table, the Zoning Administrator shall make a
determination as to what standard applies.
 
Table 4-2: Residential Visitor Parking Spaces
Residential Uses                 Visitor Parking Spaces
Single-Family Attached Dwellings 0.25 spaces per Dwelling Unit
                                 0.25 spaces per Dwelling Unit. A minimum of
Multi-Family Dwellings           2 spaces are required if less than 8 units are
                                 provided
 
      1.   Any fractional requirement of a visitor parking space shall be
interpreted as one (1) space for a total visitor parking space.
      2.   Visitor parking spaces shall be grouped in a location that is
convenient to visitors and shall be accessible at all times. Visitor parking
spaces shall not be located within a secured private or common parking garage
that requires a key, handset or other electrical or mechanical device to gain
access to such spaces.
   4-2-P. Drive-Thru Stacking
      1.   Required spaces: Every drive-thru establishment, hereinafter
constructed after the effective date of this Ordinance, shall provide twelve
(12) stacking spaces or six (6) stacking spaces per drive-thru lane for all
drive-thru facilities, whichever formula results in the greater number of
required spaces.
      2.   Design and layout:
         a.   Stacking spaces are to be located so as not to interfere with
parking or circulation upon the site;
         b.   Stacking spaces shall measure nine feet (9') wide by nineteen
feet (19') long;
         c.   The stacking spaces shall be designed so as not to interfere with
the ingress and egress to the off-street parking, traffic circulation on- or
off-site and traffic visibility;
         d.   Drive-thru pick up windows, menu boards, order boards and other
such elements shall not be located between the building and the front property
line;
         e.   Drive-thru ordering and maneuvering areas shall be provided to
the side and rear of principal buildings and may be located in the side or rear
yard;
         f.   Drive-thru establishments shall provide a bypass lane;
         g.   Stacking spaces should be separated from pedestrian paths or
marked with signs to indicate such path to drivers and signage to yield to
pedestrians; and
         h.   Stacking spaces shall not be used for the sale, repair,
dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies.
§ 4-3 SCHEDULE OF PARKING SPACES.
   4-3-A. The minimum number of usable off-street parking or stacking spaces
shall be provided as noted in Table 4-3.
   4-3-B. All references to square feet are calculated as gross square feet of
floor area.
   4-3-C. All references to the number of employees shall be calculated as
number of employees on the largest work shift.
   4-3-D. All stacking spaces shall be located on the subject site, not on any
public right-of-way.
   4-3-E. Parking requirements for uses not specifically listed shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator, based on: similar uses as may be noted
in Table 4-3, review of comparable parking utilization data provided by the
applicant or comparable parking utilization data otherwise collected by the
Zoning Administrator.
   4-3-F. Parking requirements for uses in the Industrial use category of Table
4-3 may be considered for reduction by determination of the Zoning
Administrator. In considering whether a parking reduction may be granted, the
Zoning Administrator shall consider comparable parking utilization data
provided by the applicant, circumstances unique to the business function of the
use, future reuse of the facility and comparable parking utilization data
otherwise collected by the Village.
   Upon considering such information, the Zoning Administrator may grant a
reduction of up to twenty-five (25%) percent of the total parking required per
Table 4-3. In addition to a reduction that may be granted by the Zoning
Administrator under this provision, required parking at time of development may
be further reduced up to an additional twenty-five (25%) percent of the total
parking required per Table 4-3 per the land banking provisions of Section 4-2-
K of this Ordinance.
   4-3-G. When a new building is constructed on any property zoned as
industrial, and the business use of the building has not been determined prior
to the time of occupancy and therefore, the number of employees on which to
base parking requirements cannot be established, parking shall be provided at a
rate of one (1) parking space for each one thousand (1,000') gross square feet
of building constructed. The resulting number of parking spaces shall be used
to determine the required accessible parking per Section 4-2 and any other
aspect of the Village Code in which a calculated parking requirement is
applicable. A portion of the total parking required may be land banked per
Section 4-2-K of this Ordinance.
Table 4-3: Required Parking Spaces
Land Use Required Parking Spaces
Table 4-3: Required Parking Spaces
Land Use                                Required Parking Spaces
Residential Uses
Single-Family Detached Dwellings        2 per Dwelling Unit
Single-Family Attached Dwellings        2 per Dwelling Unit
Multi-Family Dwellings                  2 per Dwelling Unit
                                        1 per 3 resident beds + 1 space per 2
Skilled Care Housing                    employees (total to be no less than 1
                                        space per 800 square feet)
Daycare Home                            1 per employee
Senior Independent Living               2 per Dwelling Unit
Community Residences                    1 space per employee
Short-Term Rentals                      NA
Public, Cultural, Recreation and Other Institutional Uses
Ambulance Services                      1 space per 2 employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Centers   1 per 150 square feet
Charitable Organizations and Business   1 per 200 square feet
Association (Offices)
Religious Institutions                  1 per 4 seats in main auditorium
Government Buildings and Facilities     1 per 200 square feet for office
                                        related uses
                                        1 space per 2 patient beds + 1 space
Hospital                                per 2 medical staff + 1 per 2 non-
                                        medical employees
Indoor Athletic Training and Recreation 1 per 4 persons of capacity + 1 per
Facilities                              employee
                                        1. Movie/Live Theater - 1 per 4 seats
Indoor Places of Entertainment and      2. Bowling Alley - 4 per lane +
Amusement                               accessory uses
                                        3. Other - 1 per 4 persons of capacity
                                        + 1 per employee
Libraries                               1 per 500 square feet
Lodges and Meeting Halls                1 per 4 persons of capacity
Outdoor Recreation or Amusement         1 per 4 persons of capacity
                                        5 spaces + 1 per employee at maximum
                                        shift + 1 stacking space or parking
Preschool Facilities                    space for each 10 children based on
                                        maximum licensed capacity (minimum
                                        required stacking = 6 spaces)
                                        1 per 4 persons of capacity or as
Public Recreational Uses                determined by Zoning Administrator
                                        based on anticipated capacity
Schools, (Public, non-profit or         For elementary schools: 2 per classroom
private)                                For high school: 1 per 8 students + 1
                                        per 2 employees
Business Uses
                                        5 spaces + 1 per employee (Additional
Automobile and/or Truck Rental          as needed for vehicle storage
                                        determined by Zoning Administrator)
Automobile and/or Truck Sales (new/     1 per 800 square feet
used)
Bakery/Coffee Shop                      1 per 100 square feet
                                        1 per 100 square feet + additional
Brew Pub                                spaces for other functions such as
                                        tasting rooms, production, etc.
Business and Trade Schools (or          1 per student + 1 per 2 employees
Colleges/Training Facilities)
Business Services                       1 per 200 square feet
Car Wash                                1 per 2 employees + stacking spaces per
                                        lane
Currency Exchange                       1 per 200 square feet
                                        5 spaces + 1 per employee at maximum
                                        shift + 1 stacking space or parking
Daycare Centers                         space for each 10 children based on
                                        maximum licensed capacity (minimum
                                        required stacking = 6 spaces)
Domestic Pet Services                   1 per 300 square feet
                                        1 per 600 square feet + 1 per 2
                                        employees
Equipment Sales, Rental or Maintenance  (Additional parking spaces needed for
                                        storage of rental vehicles
                                        shall be determined by the Zoning
                                        Administrator)
Financial Institution (with or w/       1 per 400 square feet
o Drive-Thru)
                                        1 per 3 gas pumps + 3 per service bay
                                        (The service bay may be counted as a
Fueling Stations                        parking space. Additional parking
                                        spaces as needed for vehicle storage
                                        shall be determined by the Zoning
                                        Administrator)
Furniture and Home Furnishings          1 per 250 square feet
Garden Stores                           1 per 250 square feet
Hotel                                   1 per guest room + 1 per employee at
                                        largest shift
Hotel, Extended Stay                    1 per guest room + 1 per employee at
                                        largest shift
Indoor Retail Sales of Goods            1 per 250 square feet
Laboratory                              1 per 250 square feet
Medical and Dental Clinics              1 per 150 square feet
Mobile Home and Trailer Sales and       1 per 250 square feet of showroom/
Rental                                  display space
Offices, Professional and Business      1 per 200 square feet
Personal Services                       1 per 150 square feet
Restaurants                             1 per 100 square feet
Retail Use (accessory to Manufacturing, 1 per 250 square feet
storage or warehouse uses)
Undertaking Establishments (Funeral     1 per 75 square feet + 20 stacking
Home)                                   spaces
Vehicle Internet Sales                  5 spaces + 1 per employee
                                        3 per repair bay + 1 per employee (The
                                        repair bay may be counted as a parking
Vehicle Repair/Maintenance              space. Additional parking spaces as
                                        needed for vehicle storage shall be
                                        determined by the Zoning Administrator)
Veterinary Clinics                      1 per 150 square feet
Industrial Uses
                                        1 space (Additional parking spaces
Antenna, Satellite Dish, Transmission   required for maintenance vehicle(s)
Structures, Communication Structures    shall be determined by the Zoning
                                        Administrator)
Asphalt/Concrete Plants                 1 per 2 employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Food Processing                         1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Foundries, Nonferris                    1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Light Assembly                          1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Manufacturing/Storage of Weapons,       1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
Firearms and Ammunition                 vehicle
Manufacturing, Toxic Chemicals          1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Manufacturing, General                  1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Manufacturing, Limited                  1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
                                        1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
Microbrewery                            vehicle
                                        Plus 1 space per every 2 persons of
                                        capacity of a tasting room
                                        1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
Microdistillery                         vehicle
                                        Plus 1 space per every 2 persons of
                                        capacity of a tasting room
                                        1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
Microwinery                             vehicle
                                        Plus 1 space per every 2 persons of
                                        capacity of a tasting room
Paper and Pulp Processing               1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Petroleum Storage Facilities            1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Research Laboratories                   1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Smelting and Refining of Precious       1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
Metals                                  vehicle
Truck Terminals                         1 per 2 per employees + 1 per truck
                                        originating at the facilities
Warehousing                             1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Wholesale Sales Establishment           1 per 2 per employees + 1 per company
                                        vehicle
Miscellaneous Uses
                                        1 per 2 employees + 1 per 4 persons of
Broadcasting/Entertainment Facility     capacity for any public auditorium or
                                        theater spaces
Parking Lots, Public                    NA
Museums and Art Galleries               1 per 4 persons of capacity
Mini-warehouse                          1 per 400 square feet of office space
Sexually Oriented Businesses            1 per 250 square feet
US Postal Service Branch Office         1 per 750 square feet + 1 per postal
                                        vehicle + 1 per employee
Utilities                               NA
Accessory Uses
Beauty/Barber shops associated with     1 per 300 square feet
non-residential use
Convention and Meeting Facilities as an
Accessory Use to Restaurant, Hotel or   1 per 4 persons of capacity
Office Buildings and not exceeding 20%
of the Gross Floor Area of such use
Drugstores                              1 per 500 square feet
Gift Shops                              1 per 500 square feet
Heliports and public transportation
facilities exclusive of service and     NA
maintenance facilities
Helistop associated with non-           NA
residential use
Home Occupations                        1 per employee
Office supplies associated with non-    1 per 500 square feet
residential use
Outdoor Dining associated with a        NA
permitted Restaurant
Outdoor Sales                           NA
Outdoor Storage                         NA
Restaurants (without drive-thru)        1 per 200 square feet
associated with non-residential use
 
§ 4-4 LOADING: GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   Off-street loading shall be provided and maintained as the joint
responsibility of the property owner and operator of all uses on said property.
The owner and operator shall provide sufficient off-street loading as needed to
adequately and safely load and unload materials or goods for uses on the
subject site. Public rights-of-way are intended for the orderly movement of
vehicles and pedestrians and may be used to access sites, but not for primary
or significant maneuvering of vehicles that are loading and unloading.
   Off-street loading spaces shall be required in connection with any building,
or part thereof hereafter, erected or altered that is to be occupied by a user
requiring the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise. No structure
shall be designed, erected or altered unless the off-street loading space
required is provided.
   All off-street loading shall be maintained as hereinafter required:
   4-4-A. Zoning Districts. The provisions for off-street loading specified in
this Chapter shall apply to Business, OT and Industrial Zoning Districts.
Loading requirements for the ITC Zoning District shall be as specified in
requirements noted in the Innovation and Technology Center District Design
Guidelines and Section 4-6-D.
   4-4-B. New Buildings. All buildings constructed after the effective date of
this Ordinance shall provide for loading to be located along the side or rear
of the building, loading docks may not be located on the portion of the
building facing a roadway. For properties on a corner lot, loading docks may be
located on the shorter of the two street frontages.
   4-4-C. Existing Buildings. For existing buildings and land uses, the
following provisions shall apply.
      1.   Time of Construction: The minimum number of loading spaces required
for an existing building or use of land at the time its Building Permit was
issued shall apply in cases of existing buildings and uses, even if they are
less than required in this Chapter.
      2.   Buildings for which new loading spaces are added shall locate those
spaces along the side or rear of the building, loading docks may not be located
on the portion of the building facing a roadway. Except that a new loading
space may be located on the front of the building if a finding is made by the
Zoning Administrator that all the following conditions exist:
         a.   Depth of the lot on which the existing building is located,
combined with the size and location of that building do not facilitate safe and
adequate truck movement to reach loading spaces at the rear of the building;
         b.   Existing business conducted in the building are such that
locating new loading spaces to the rear or side of the structure would be an
unreasonable disruption to the business’ operations; and
         c.   Conditions related to a request for loading spaces in the front
of the building are unique to the building location and business operation and
are not due to circumstances created by the property owner or building
occupant.
      3.   Building Expansions: Any structure that is expanded shall provide
loading spaces for the increment of expansion only, adding the number of
loading spaces for the newly added square footage based on the requirements
specified in Table 4-4: Required Loading Spaces.
      4.   Building Expansions for properties located North of Landmeier Road
and West of Busse Road: Any structure located in the area North of Landmeier
Road and West of Busse Road that is expanded shall provide the number of
loading spaces that would be required if the entire structure was newly built,
with the number of loading spaces based on the requirements specified in Table
4-4: Required Loading Spaces. Except that the Zoning Administrator may grant a
request by the property owner to provide less than the required number of
loading spaces. In all instances, a minimum of one loading space shall be
provided. In evaluating whether such reduction in the number of loading spaces
may be granted, the Zoning Administrator shall find that all the following
exist:
         a.   Conditions related to a request for reduced number of loading
spaces are related to unique conditions of building location and business
operation, and are not due to circumstances created by the property owner or
building occupant;
         b.   Whether sufficient evidence is provided by the applicant that
supports the reduced loading needs; and
         c.   Comparable loading space data provided by the applicant,
circumstances unique to the business function of the use, future reuse of the
facility and comparable loading space utilization data otherwise collected by
the Village.
§ 4-5 LOADING REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   4-5-A. Location: Off-street loading shall be located on the same lot as the
structure for which loading is provided.
   4-5-B. Location in Yards: Off-street loading spaces may occupy all or any
required yard space pursuant to Section 3-2-G of this Ordinance and providing
no vehicle projects beyond the property line of the lot.
   4-5-C. Design, Development and Maintenance: All off-street loading spaces
shall be designed, developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements:
      1.   Size:
         a.   Each off-street loading space shall be not less than twelve feet
(12') in width and sixty feet (60') in length, exclusive of access lanes or
driveways.
         b.   No portion of a vehicle shall project into a public right-of-way
while being loaded or unloaded.
      2.   Surfacing: Loading spaces shall be paved with asphalt or concrete.
      3.   Stormwater: Loading spaces shall be constructed in keeping with all
applicable Village stormwater management and floodplain management regulations,
with the intent that surface drainage emanating from the site does not
adversely impact nearby streets, public rights-of-way or private properties.
      4.   Screening: Off-street loading spaces that adjoin or are within fifty
feet (50') of property zoned for any residential use shall be required to
comply with the following:
         a.   Have a dense evergreen planting;
         b.   Have an eight-foot (8') masonry wall; or
         c.   Provide such other screening in height, location and density as
may be required by the Zoning Administrator to mitigate potential impacts
related to noise and views of the loading area and to be in keeping with the
Industrial Commercial Revitalization Master Plan Update;
         d.   Locate required landscaping between the required wall and the
adjacent residential property; and
         e.   Meet any relevant requirements of Chapter 11: Landscape and Site
Development of this Ordinance.
      5.   Entrances and Exits: Vehicles involved in loading or unloading of
goods or materials may not park or be left unattended on any driveways or
access lanes serving any portion of a property.
      6.   Use for Sale, Repair or Servicing of Vehicles: The sale, repair,
dismantling or servicing of any vehicles, equipment, materials or supplies
shall not be permitted in any loading space.
§ 4-6 SCHEDULE OF LOADING SPACES.
   4-6-A. The minimum number of off-street loading spaces required shall be
based on the gross floor area of the associated structure per Table 4-4 below:
Table 4-4: Required Loading Spaces
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Required Number of Spaces
Table 4-4: Required Loading Spaces
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Required Number of Spaces
Up to 20,000                    1
20,001 to 40,000                2
40,001 to 70,000                3
70,001 to 120,000               4
120,001 to 200,000              5
For each additional 100,000     1 additional
 
   4-6-B. All off-street loading spaces shall include an area or means adequate
for maneuvering, and site ingress and egress.
   4-6-C. The above loading space requirements shall not apply to office or
hotel uses unless said uses provide designated assembly or meeting rooms. In
which case, one loading space for every one hundred thousand (100,000') square
feet, or portion thereof, of floor area devoted to assembly or meeting rooms
shall be provided.
   4-6-D. Loading spaces in the Innovation and Technology Center Zoning
District:
      1.   Loading and service docks shall be permitted within the Innovation
and Technology Center Zoning District. Loading and service docks shall be
limited to no more than one per ten thousand (10,000') square feet of building
space per parcel.
      2.   All buildings shall have at least one loading or service dock area
which is twelve feet (12') wide by sixty feet (60') long.
   4-6-E. Docks for Data Centers:
      In considering whether a loading space reduction may be granted, the
Zoning Administrator shall consider comparable loading space utilization data
provided by the applicant, circumstances unique to the business function of the
use, future reuse of the facility and comparable loading space utilization data
otherwise collected by the Village.
   4-6-F. Land Banking Loading Spaces. In lieu of providing the loading spaces
required per Table 4-4 and Section 4-6-D, the Zoning Administrator may grant a
request by the property owner to provide required loading spaces at a later
date if necessary. In all instances, a minimum of one loading space shall be
provided. In evaluating whether such land banking of loading spaces may be
granted, the Zoning Administrator shall consider:
      1.   Whether sufficient evidence is provided by the applicant that
supports the reduced loading space needs;
      2.   The manner in which the building’s structure, interior and site are
designed to accommodate future loading spaces;
      3.   The manner in which the building exterior will appear compatible
with surrounding buildings during and after land banking of loading spaces;
      4.   Comparable loading space data provided by the applicant,
circumstances unique to the business function of the use, future reuse of the
facility and comparable loading space utilization data otherwise collected by
the Village;
      5.   The Zoning Administrator at their sole discretion, on the basis of
increased loading demand or impact of loading functions on adjacent roadways or
properties indicating that the land banking condition is inadequate, may
require the conversion of all or part of the land-banked area to loading
spaces; and
      6.   The property owner may convert the land banked area to loading
spaces with prior notification to the Village, subject to all required permits.
CHAPTER 5: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
5-1   Purpose and Intent
   
5-2   Procedure
   
5-3   Findings
 
§ 5-1 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   5-1-A. Authority: The Mayor and Board of Trustees may, in accordance with
the procedures and standards set out in this Chapter and by Ordinance duly
adopted, grant a Planned Development in the form of a Special Use. The intent
of a Planned Development is to consider developments presenting a higher form
of design quality, public benefit and a need for flexible application of
certain zoning standards.
   5-1-B. Purpose: The Planned Development process is intended to provide for
developments incorporating a single type or a variety of related land uses that
are planned and developed as a unit. Such development may consist of
conventionally subdivided lots or provide for development by an alternative
development organization with a site plan that reflects a high level of
aesthetic quality and leads to an enhanced quality of life for those that will
live and/or work in the development. More specifically, the purpose of the
Planned Development is to encourage:
      1.   A maximum choice in the types of environments available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of other sections of this Ordinance;
      2.   Permanent preservation of common open space, recreation areas and
facilities;
      3.   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic
and geologic features;
      4.   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
development that results in improved development, design and the construction
of aesthetic amenities;
      5.   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities and streets; and
      6.   A land use pattern that promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare.
   5-1-C. Planned Developments to be Considered: Planned Developments may be
granted as a Special Use in any Zoning District in the Village. The following
additional standards shall apply to Planned Developments:
      1.   If more than one principal building is included in a Planned
Development located in a B-1, B-2 or B-3 Zoning District, then the minimum
distance between principal buildings shall be the greater of the height of the
taller building or twenty-five feet (25');
      2.   The Planned Development need not be subdivided into lots;
      3.   A single entity shall be responsible for maintenance of any common
open space, private
streets, parking areas and other facilities intended for private use and which
are not publicly maintained or owned and such entity shall have a right to
impose a legally enforceable lien for the cost thereof; and
      4.   The dimensions, bulk and area regulations for all Zoning Districts
as required in Section 7-1 of this Ordinance and as set forth in the schedules
contained in said section shall be applied to the total area within the Planned
Development, as one lot, for the specific Zoning District in which the Planned
Development is located.
§ 5-2 PROCEDURE.
   5-2-A. Planned Developments Procedure: A Planned Development shall be
granted as a Special Use in accordance with the following procedures.
Applications shall be made on forms provided by the Village and shall be
accompanied by the required plats and documents.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2134.png]
      1.   Informal Review Conference: To initiate the Planned Development
process, the owner/developer has the option to meet with Village staff for an
informal review of the potential development, its compliance with the Village
Comprehensive Plan and development ordinances, appropriateness for the site and
surrounding areas, the approval process and related matters. The Informal
Review Conference does not require formal application, fee or filing of a
Planned Development plat. To make the discussion productive, applicants are
required to provide information describing the land use, property size and
character of the anticipated development.
      2.   Technical Review Conference: A formal meeting to review the proposed
Planned Development shall be held with Village staff for preliminary
consideration of the proposed development in light of the requirements of this
Chapter. The following materials shall be provided to the Village prior to
scheduling and conducting the Technical Review Conference:
         a.   General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions,
drainage, land and soil characteristics, available community facilities and
utilities, existing covenants and other related information;
         b.   Site Plan: A drawing showing the proposed location, elevation and
the extent of the land uses, streets, lots and other features;
         c.   Legal Description: A property survey and description of the site
proposed for development; and
      d.   Current Title: Evidence of property ownership or control.
      3.   Pre-Application Meeting: Prior to the filing of an application for
Planned Development, the developer may request an informal meeting to discuss
the development. Said meeting shall be held with the Plan Commission as part of
a regularly scheduled meeting, shall be open to the public and be included on
the Plan Commission’s agenda in advance of the meeting. Submittal requirements
for the Pre-Application Meeting will be the same as those for the Technical
Review Conference, as well as other materials that may be directed by the
Zoning Administrator as needed to provide useful background for the Plan
Commission. This meeting is to serve as a benefit to the applicant to provide
insights and understanding as to the Plan Commission’s and Village’s
perspective on how the proposed Planned Development comports to the Village’s
Comprehensive Plan, what information will be useful to the Plan Commission as
part of the formal approval process and what issues the Plan Commission notes
merit consideration during the process. This information will allow the
applicant to prepare the necessary information to present plans to the Village.
      4.   Referral by Mayor and Board of Trustees. Materials provided at the
Technical Review Conference shall be submitted to the Village Manager for
transmittal to the Mayor and the Board of Trustees who shall refer same to the
Plan Commission for consideration of preliminary plat approval and public
hearing as per the procedures of this Chapter.
      5.   Approval of Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat of the Planned
Development shall be submitted to the Village Manager for transmittal to the
Plan Commission for public hearing, report and recommendation as to whether or
not the Mayor and Board of Trustees should issue a Special Use permit for the
plan. The required procedure for approval of the preliminary plat shall be:
         a.   Materials Submitted:
            i.   Written application for approval of a Planned Development to
be made on forms and in the manner approved by the Village Attorney;
            ii.   A fee to accompany the application, which fee shall be
established by the Mayor and Board of Trustees;
            iii.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
subject property;
            iv.   An accurate legal description of the area of the Planned
Development;
            v.   An accurate survey of the area included in the Planned
Development and also showing all existing or dedicated streets within one
hundred feet (100') of the Planned Development;
            vi.   Delineation of all subdivided lots;
            vii.   Density, land use allocation information and data concerning
the bulk of buildings and structures as required by Village forms;
            viii.   Development and construction time schedules;
            ix.   Designation of common open space, parking lots, roads,
sidewalks, schools, public lands, drainage courses, lake areas, open spaces and
recreational paths and areas;
            x.   The location of the various uses, number and type of dwelling
units and the location of each building;
            xi.   Architectural elevations depicting the style of architecture
and building materials and indicating the height and number of stories of all
structures;
            xii.   The plat shall be drawn to a scale of one inch to one
hundred feet (1" = 100'). Said plat shall be certified true and correct and
dated by a State of Illinois registered land surveyor;
            xiii.   A Tax Impact Study indicating the possible tax consequences
the proposed Planned Development will have upon the Village and other affected
taxing bodies;
            xiv.   A Traffic Impact Study providing overall traffic conditions
associated with the proposed development, changes to level of service on
surrounding roadways, potential impacts related to traffic congestion, any new
street construction and traffic control improvements necessary to accommodate
the estimated increase in traffic and traffic related problems from the
proposed development;
            xv.   A preliminary engineering study showing the location and
adequacy of existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water
distribution systems and stormwater management systems;
            xvi.   A map or text exhibit describing the existing natural and
environmental resources and features on the subject property, including its
topography, vegetation, soils, geology and attractive vistas and the impact of
the proposed Planned Development on such resources and features, including
proposals to preserve or protect such resources and features;
            xvii.   A statement of the applicant’s intent with respect to the
ownership, sale and leasing of the various completed units, structures, spaces
and areas within the proposed Planned Development; and
            xviii.   If the Planned Development is to be constructed in stages
or units during a period extending beyond a single construction season, a
development schedule for each stage stating the approximate beginning and
completion date.
         b.   Hearing: The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
application for a Planned Development, giving notice of the time and place not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing by
publishing a notice thereof at least once in a newspaper published or having
general circulation within the Village.
         c.   Decisions by Plan Commission: Following the public hearing and
review of the preliminary plat and supporting materials for conformity to this
Ordinance, the Plan Commission shall, within sixty (60) days from date of
public hearing, recommend approval, modification or disapproval, and the
reasons therefor, to the Mayor and Board of Trustees. As a condition to the
approval of the preliminary plat, the Plan Commission shall set forth in a
separate communication to the Mayor and Board of Trustees findings of fact on
which it bases its approval, which findings shall satisfy the Zoning District
requirements and as provided herein.
         d.   Decisions by the Mayor and Board of Trustees: The Mayor and Board
of Trustees, after receipt of the preliminary plat from the Plan Commission,
shall approve, modify or disapprove the preliminary plat. In the case of
approval, or approval with modification, the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall
pass an ordinance approving the preliminary plat and reciting necessary
findings of fact, indicate their approval of the plat, direct the recording of
said documents as deemed necessary with the Recorder of Deeds and direct Zoning
Map modifications as necessary. The Mayor and Board of Trustees may require
such special conditions as it deems necessary to ensure conformance with the
intent of all Comprehensive Plan elements and the stated purpose of the Planned
Development.
         e.   Interpretation of Preliminary Plat Approval: Approval of a
preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it
shall be deemed an expression of approval to the layout submitted on the
preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the final plat which will be
submitted for approval of the Village and subsequent recording upon the
fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and conditions of the
preliminary approval, if any. The final plat shall be approved as the final
Land Use and Zoning Plat if it conforms with the preliminary plat. No Building
Permit shall be issued for any structure until the approval of the final plat.
         f.   Concurrent Review: An applicant for Planned Development may
request concurrent review of preliminary and final plats. Such request shall be
approved at the sole determination of the Zoning Administrator. If concurrent
review is authorized, the process shall include the public hearing required by
this Section and all materials required below shall be provided prior to
scheduling said hearing.
      6.   Approval of Planned Development Final Plat: The Planned Development
final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and
if desired by the developer, it may be submitted in stages with each stage
reflecting the approved preliminary plat which is proposed to be recorded and
developed; provided, however, that such stages conform to all requirements of
these regulations. The required procedure for approval of a final plat shall be
as follows.
         a.   Submission of Final Plat: A final plat and other supporting data
required for approval shall be submitted to the Plan Commission through the
Village Manager. The final plat shall be submitted in accordance with agreed to
scheduling from date of approval of preliminary plat, but not later than one
year; in the event an application for final plat is not submitted within one
year, the Village may initiate such zoning changes to rescind the preliminary
plat approval or other actions as it deems necessary to preserve the public
interest.
            i.   Upon written request by the applicant and showing of good
cause, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may extend the filing for the final plat
a maximum of twelve (12) months.
            ii.   Final plats and supporting data shall show, in detail, the
design, location and use of all buildings and overall land development in the
form of the same materials outlined in Subsection b below.
         b.   Required Information:
            i.   An accurate legal description of the area under immediate
development within the Planned Development;
            ii.   An accurate survey of said area;
            iii.   A subdivision plat of all subdivided lots within said area
of immediate development;
            iv.   Substantial conformance with the preliminary plat;
            v.   Building sites with all dimensions shown on the preliminary
plat shall be shown on the final plat. The actual placement or the bulk of
buildings constructed shall not violate the separation between buildings,
streets or lot lines as approved on the site plan;
            vi.   The plat shall be certified true and correct and dated by a
State of Illinois registered land surveyor;
            vii.   Evidence of current title or property control; and
            viii.   Revised materials as outlined in Subsection 5a above as
required by the Zoning Administrator to accurately define and be recorded as
the final plat.
         c.   Certifications: The final plat and supporting data shall be
submitted to the Village Manager for certification that the final plat is in
conformity with these regulations and in agreement with the approved
preliminary plat.
         d.   Decisions of Plan Commission: After review of the final plat, the
Plan Commission shall, within thirty (30) days after submittal, recommend
approval or disapproval or approval subject to stated modifications and the
reasons therefor to the Mayor and Board of Trustees that the final plat is in
Substantial Conformance with the preliminary plat.
         e.   Decisions of Mayor and Board of Trustees: The Mayor and Board of
Trustees, after receipt of the final plat from the Plan Commission, shall
approve or disapprove the final plat and shall pass an ordinance authorizing
the issuance of any and all other necessary permits.
         f.   Permits: Permits are to be issued only after the final plat and
supporting data have been approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
         g.   Filing Preliminary and Final Plats: The ordinance authorizing the
Planned Development shall be effective only upon recording by the Village
Clerk, unless this Ordinance shall otherwise provide, of the Planned
Development plats and supporting data with the County Recorder of Deeds. No
permit allowing construction of a building or other development shall take
place until the approval of the final plat.
         h.   Plat Purpose: The purpose of the plats is to designate, with
particularity, the land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the
division of other lands not so subdivided into common open areas and building
sites. The preliminary plat shall generally locate buildings whereas the final
plat shall show the exact location of each building site. The recording of the
final plats shall inform all who deal with the Planned Development of the
restrictions placed upon the land and act as a zoning control device.
      7.   Changes in the Planned Development: The Planned Development project
shall be developed only according to the approved and recorded final plat and
all supporting data. The recorded final plat and supporting data, together with
all recorded amendments, shall be binding on the applicants, their successors
and assigns and shall limit and control the use of the premises and location of
structures in the Planned Development project as set forth therein.
         a.   Major Changes: Any of the following changes shall be deemed to be
major changes, which may be approved only by submission of a new preliminary
plan and/or plat, and supporting data, following the procedures set forth in
this Section:
            1.   Increase: A greater than five percent (5%) increase, based on
the approved plan and plat of Planned Development for the project, in any of
the following components: total gross floor area of all of the buildings in the
project, or total number of dwelling units, unless otherwise restricted by the
ordinance granting the Special Use for the Planned Development;
            2.   Decrease: A greater than five percent (5%) decrease, based on
the approved plan and plat of Planned Development for the project, to any of
the following components: total number of parking spaces, total percentage of
open space or total percentage of landscaped area, unless otherwise restricted
by the ordinance granting the Special Use for the Planned Development;
            3.   Building Height Increase: A greater than ten percent (10%)
increase in height;
            4.   Classification Change: A change in the functional
classification of an area, the types of dwelling units or the types of land
uses permitted within the Planned Development;
            5.   An increase in any previously approved deviation for the
Planned Development that would result in a change from the original plan that
exceeds the limits set forth above.
         b.   Minor Changes: Minor changes shall be changes not defined as
major changes. The Zoning Administrator may approve minor changes in the
Planned Development, provided they do not change the concept or the intent of
the development. This process does not require going through the aforementioned
preliminary approval steps. However, if the Zoning Administrator deems it
advisable, in their sole discretion, they may require that any such minor
change be submitted to the Plan Commission for review and recommendation,
without the requirement of a public hearing, prior to the minor change being
submitted to the Mayor and Board of Trustees for approval.
      8.   Scheduling of Development: The Mayor and Board of Trustees, upon
advice of the Village Manager, shall direct the Plan Commission to hold a
public hearing for the purpose of rezoning and cancelling all Planned
Development permits if the Planned Development falls more than two (2) years
behind schedule. Extensions in the scheduling of development may be granted by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees by submission of evidence that there is
reasonable cause for the delay and the extension sought.
§ 5-3 FINDINGS.
   5-3-A. Prior to recommending approval of preliminary or final plat for a
Planned Development, the Plan Commission shall make specific findings of fact
that all standards listed below have been met by the proposed development and
shall report to the Mayor and Board of Trustees as to the following:
      1.   The standards for Special Use, as outlined in Subsection 8-3-E4 of
this Ordinance, shall be met by all Planned Developments;
      2.   The physical design of the proposed plan and the manner in which
said design does or does not make adequate provision for public services,
provide adequate control over vehicular traffic, provide for and protect
designated common open space and further the amenities of light, air,
recreation and visual enjoyment;
      3.   The effect of the proposed plan to the physical development, tax
base and the economic well-being of the Village; and
      4.   The site plan and design of all Planned Developments shall be in
keeping with the intent of the design standards defined in the Elk Grove
Village Industrial Commercial Revitalization Master Plan Update.
CHAPTER 6: ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Section
   
6-1   Districts Established
   
6-2   Zoning Map
   
6-3   Interpretation of District Boundaries
   
6-4   Zoning of Areas Annexed to the Village
§ 6-1 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   Elk Grove Village is divided into the following Zoning Districts:
      R-1 Single-Family Residence District
      R-2 Single-Family Residence District (District not currently used or
mapped)
      R-3 Single-Family Residence District
      R-4 Residence District
      A-1 Multiple-Family Residence District
      A-2 Multiple-Family Residence District
      A-3 Combined Multiple-Family Recreation District
      B-1 Business District: Shopping Center
      B-2 Business District: General Business
      B-3 Business District: Automotive Oriented
      B-4 Business District: (District not currently used or mapped)
      B-5 Business District: Town Center
      O-T Office/Transitional District
      ITC Innovation and Technology Center District
      I-1 Restricted Industrial District
      I-2 General Industrial District
§ 6-2 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the Zoning Districts are shown upon a map that is made a
part of this Ordinance by reference, which map is designated as the Zoning Map.
The Zoning Map and all notations, references and other information shown
thereon were all fully set forth and described herein, the original of which
Zoning Map is on file with the Village Clerk. Copies shall be available to the
public and annually updated as provided by law.
§ 6-3 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules shall be used to interpret the exact locations of the
district boundaries shown on the Zoning Map:
   6-3-A. Where a district boundary generally follows a street, the center line
of the street is the boundary of the district;
   6-3-B. Where a district boundary generally follows a lot or property line,
that property line is the boundary of the district; and
   6-3-C. Where a district boundary does not clearly follow any of the features
mentioned above, its exact location on the ground shall be determined by
measurement according to the map scale and as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
§ 6-4 ZONING OF AREAS ANNEXED TO THE VILLAGE.
   6-4-A. Any area annexed to Elk Grove Village shall be classified in
accordance with the Zoning District ascribed to it on the Official Map of the
Village, which is on file with the Village Clerk.
   6-4-B. Where the designated Zoning District is not specifically or
definitively designated on the Official Map, such property shall be annexed to
the Village and zoned as the most restrictive district in this Ordinance.
   6-4-C. In the event owners of property seek to be annexed and desire a
zoning classification other than ascribed to the property by the Official Map,
a petition may be submitted for the zoning classification desired. The Mayor
and Board of Trustees, in the event it is deemed desirable, may refer said
petition to the Plan Commission for hearing and recommendation. Action on the
petition for annexation shall be deferred until action is taken by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees, acting upon a recommendation of the Plan Commission, as
to the zoning sought.
CHAPTER 7: REGULATIONS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
7-1   Dimensions, Bulk and Area Regulations for All Zoning Districts
   
7-2   Residential Districts
   
7-3   Business Districts
   
7-4   Industrial Districts
§ 7-1 DIMENSIONS, BULK AND AREA REGULATIONS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   No Building Permit shall be issued for construction on land in the various
Zoning Districts unless such construction shall abide by the bulk restrictions
set forth in the schedule below, which schedule is incorporated and made part
of this Zoning Ordinance.
Table 7.1: Schedule of Bulk and Yard Requirements and Regulations
                                           Minimum
         Maximum             Minimum       Lot     Minimum  Minimum  Minimum  Minimum
         Height of  Maximum  Lot     Max.  Width   Required Required Required Building
District Buildings/ Ground   Area    Floor at      Front    For Each Rear     Size
         Structures Coverage (sq.    Area  Front   Yard     Side     Yard     (sq.
         (ft.)               ft.)    Ratio Yard    (ft.)    Yard     (ft.)    ft.)
                                           Line             (ft.)
                                           (ft.)
Table 7.1: Schedule of Bulk and Yard Requirements and Regulations
                                                  Minimum
         Maximum                                  Lot     Minimum  Minimum   Minimum  Minimum
         Height of  Maximum  Minimum    Max.      Width   Required Required  Required Building
District Buildings/ Ground   Lot Area   Floor     at      Front    For Each  Rear     Size
         Structures Coverage (sq. ft.)  Area      Front   Yard     Side Yard Yard     (sq.
         (ft.)                          Ratio     Yard    (ft.)    (ft.)     (ft.)    ft.)
                                                  Line
                                                  (ft.)
R-1      2 stories  35%      20,000     0.3       100     25       10% of    20       1,000
         or 35 ft.3                                                Frontage
R-2      2 stories  35%      10,000     0.4       60      25       or 8      20       1,000
         or 35 ft.3                                                ft.,7
R-3      2 stories  35%      7,500      0.4       60      25       whichever 20       1,000
         or 35 ft.3                                                is
R-4      2 stories  35%      7,500      0.4       60      25       greater   20       1,000
         or 35 ft.3
                             10,000 or
                             as
A-1      35' or 60' 35%      detailed   1.0       60      25       8         20       2,000
         (P.D.)1             in
                             Subsection
                             7-2-E
                             10,000 or
                             as
A-2      35' or 60' 35%      detailed   1.0       60      25       8         20       2,000
         (P.D.)1             in
                             Subsection
                             7-2-F
A-3      As detailed in Section 7-2-G of this Ordinance                               2,000
B-1      2 stories  20%      5 acres    0.2       150     25       0 or 502  0 or 502 10% of
         or 35 ft.3                                                                   Lot Area
B-2      2 stories  50%      22,500     1.0       150     25       0 or 752  0 or 752 10% of
         or 35 ft.3                                                                   Lot Area
B-3      2 stories  50%      22,500     0.5       150     25       0 or 752  0 or 752 10% of
         or 35 ft.3                                                                   Lot Area
B-5      50         20%      10 acres   0.2       150     258      0 or 502  0 or 502
                                                                                      Greater
                                                                                      of 25%
         3 stories                                                           30 or    of Lot
O-T      or 35 ft.3 50%      20,000     1.0       100     25       20 or 752 752      Area or
                                                                                      5,000
                                                                                      square
                                                                                      feet
                                        0.50 for
         Lesser of                      each
ITC      25 stories 50%      4 acres    level of  100     50       10        15       NA
         or 375 ft.                     all
                                        buildings
                                                                                      Greater
         2 stories                                                                    of 25%
         or                                                                  15 or    of Lot
I-1      45         80%      15,000     0.8       60      25       10 or 502 502      Area or
         ft.3,4,5,6                                                                   5,000
                                                                                      square
                                                                                      feet
                                                                                      Greater
                                                                                      of 25%
         6 stories                                                           15 or    of Lot
I-2      or 100     80%      20,000     2.0       100     25       10 or 502 502      Area or
         ft.3                                                                         5,000
                                                                                      square
                                                                                      feet
1 P.D. = Planned Development
2 When lot abuts residential district.  6 Greater than 1000 ft. from property zoned
3 Whichever is more restrictive.        in R Zoning Districts, the limit is 100 ft.
4 Within 200 ft. of property zoned in R 7 Except lots east of Beisner Road, which
Zoning Districts, the limit is 2        shall have a 5' side yard requirement.
stories or 45 ft.                       8 Unless property is included in a reciprocal
5 Greater than 200 ft. of property      easement agreement with adjacent B-5 zoned
zoned in R Zoning Districts, the limit  property and the agreement includes ingress
is 60 ft. or 6 stories. Special use is  and egress provisions thereby negating the
required for heights in excess of 60    requirement for a minimum lot width.
ft. within 1000 ft. of property zoned
in R Zoning Districts.
 
§ 7-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   7-2-A. R-1 Single-Family Residence Zoning District:
R-1 Single-Family Residence District
R-1 Single-Family Residence District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)            20,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line  100'
(ft.)
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)     25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard   10% of frontage or 8 feet1, whichever is
(ft.)                                 greater
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)      20'
Maximum Ground Coverage               35%
Maximum Building Height (whichever is 2 stories or 35'
less)
Maximum Floor Area Ratio              0.3
1. Lots east of Beisner Road shall have a 5' side yard requirement on each
side.
 
      1.   Purpose: The R-1 Single-Family Residential Zoning District is an
area of the largest single-family dwelling lots in the Village, providing
relatively lower density than other residential districts. As with other
single-family districts, the R-1 Zoning District can accommodate community
facilities such as schools, parks and institutional uses like hospitals that,
when properly sited, can enhance the Village and resident’s quality of life.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-1 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the R-1 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-1 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-1 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-1 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7-1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-1 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the R-1 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.1: R-1 Single-Family Residence District Bulk Regulations Illustration.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2136.png]
   7-2-B. R-2 Single-Family Residence Zoning District:
R-2 Single-Family Residence District
R-2 Single-Family Residence District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)            10,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line  60'
(ft.)
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)     25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard   10% of frontage or 8 feet1, whichever is
(ft.)                                 greater
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)      20'
Maximum Ground Coverage               35%
Maximum Building Height (whichever is 2 stories or 35'
less)
Maximum Floor Area Ratio              0.4
1. Lots east of Beisner Road shall have a 5' side yard requirement on each
side.
 
      1.   Purpose: The R-2 Single-Family Residential Zoning District provides
moderate sized lots for single-family dwellings in the Village. As with other
single-family districts, the R-2 Zoning District can accommodate community
facilities such as schools and parks that, when properly sited, can enhance the
Village and resident’s quality of life.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-2 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the R-2 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-2 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-2 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-2 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-2 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the R-2 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.2: R-2 Single-Family Residence District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2138.png]
 
   7-2-C. R-3 Single-Family Residence Zoning District:
R-3 Single-Family Residence District
R-3 Single-Family Residence District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)            7,500
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line  60'
(ft.)
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)     25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard   10% of frontage or 8' feet1, whichever is
(ft.)                                 greater
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)      20'
Maximum Ground Coverage               35%
Maximum Building Height (whichever is 2 stories or 35'
less)
Maximum Floor Area Ratio              0.4
1. Lots east of Beisner Road shall have a 5' side yard requirement on each
side.
 
      1.   Purpose: The R-3 Single-Family Residential Zoning District is the
predominant residential Zoning District in the Village, defining the
residential character of the community. As with other single-family districts,
the R-3 Zoning District can accommodate community facilities such as schools
and parks that, when properly sited, can enhance the Village and residents’
quality of life.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the R-3 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the R-3 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-3 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-3 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-3 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-3 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the R-3 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.3: R-3 Single-Family Residence District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2140.png]
   7-2-D. R-4 Residence Zoning District (Planned Development):
R-4 Single-Family Residence District
R-4 Single-Family Residence District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)            7,500
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line  60'
(ft.)
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)     25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard   10% of frontage or 8' feet1, whichever is
(ft.)                                 greater
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)      20’
Maximum Ground Coverage               35%
Maximum Building Height (whichever is 2 stories or 35'
less)
Maximum Floor Area Ratio              0.4
1. Per Planned Development Regulations
 
      1.   Purpose: The R-4 Single-Family Residential Zoning District is
comparable to the R-3 Zoning District and is intended to be developed as a
Planned Development, allowing for a flexible development approach with the
expectation of a higher quality of development character and site design. In
this context, the R-4 Single-Family Zoning District can accommodate community
facilities such as schools and parks that, when property sited, can enhance the
Village and resident’s quality of life.
      2.   Permitted Use: Permitted Uses in the R-4 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses. Conditional Uses in the R-4 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the R-4 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the R-4 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the R-4 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-4 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the R-4 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.4: R-4 Residence District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2144.png]
 
   7-2-E. A-1 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning District:
A-1 Multiple-Family Residence District1
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 10,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 60'
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  8'
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           20'
Maximum Ground Coverage                    35%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              35' or 60'
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   1.0
1. Standards of the A-1 District may be varied through a Planned Development
and as indicated in Subsections 7-2-H7 and 8, Supplemental Regulations.
 
      1.   Purpose: The A-1 Multiple-Family Zoning District is intended to
accommodate townhomes and multiple-family dwellings at an overall density not
to exceed ten (10) units per acre. Under provisions of a Special Use permit,
senior oriented types of housing may be incorporated into this district, to the
extent it is in keeping with the area and appropriately sited.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the A-1 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the A-1 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the A-1 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the A-1 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the A-1 Zoning
District including
regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas, ground coverage and
building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this page and illustrated
below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-1 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the A-1 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.5: A-1 Multiple-Family Residence District Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2146.png]
   7-2-F. A-2 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning District
A-2 Multiple-Family Residence District 1
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 10,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 60'
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  8'
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           20'
Maximum Ground Coverage                    35%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              35' or 60'
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   1.0
1. Standards of the A-2 District may be varied through a Planned Development
and as indicated in Subsections 7-2-H9 and 10, Supplemental Regulations.
 
      1.   Purpose: The A-2 Multiple-Family Zoning District is intended to
accommodate townhomes and multiple-family dwellings at an overall density not
to exceed fifteen (15) units per acre. Under provisions of a Special Use
permit, senior oriented types of housing may be incorporated into this
district, to the extent it is in keeping with the area and appropriately sited.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the A-2 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the A-2 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the A-2 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the A-2 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the A-2 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-2 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District: Supplemental Regulations for the A-2 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental Regulations in Residential
Districts.
Figure 7.6: A-2 Multiple-Family Residence District Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2148.png]
   7-2-G. A-3 Combined Multiple-Family Recreational Zoning District:
A-3 Combined Multiple-Family Recreational District
A-3 Combined Multiple-Family Recreational District
Minimum Required District Size 20 Acres
Minimum Lot Area1
Minimum Lot Width1
Minimum Required Yards1
Maximum Ground Coverage1
Maximum Building Height1
Maximum Floor Area Ratio1
1. See Supplemental Regulations Subsection 7-2-H11
 
      1.   Purpose: The A-3 Multiple-Family Recreational Zoning District is
designated for integrated development of multi-family dwellings and
recreational use. It is of such substantially different character from other
developments within Elk Grove Village so that specific procedures, additional
standards and exceptions are applied in this comprehensively planned format,
whether in phases or otherwise, by private developers and/or Municipal
corporations. The intent of this District is to permit flexibility and
creativity in design as well as diversification in use, to promote the
efficient use of land and to facilitate the economic arrangement of buildings,
vehicular circulation systems, recreational facilities and land use.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the A-3 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the A-3 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the A-3 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the A-3 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the A-3 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Subsection 7-2-H11.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-3 Multiple-Family Recreational
Zoning District: Supplemental Regulations for the A-3 Multiple-Family
Recreational Zoning District are listed in Section 7-2-H Supplemental
Regulations in Residential Districts.
   7-2-H. Supplemental Regulations in Residential Districts:
      1.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the R-1, R-2, R-
3 and R-4 Single-Family Residential Zoning Districts: In addition to the
requirements for all Conditional Uses, the following uses shall meet the
additional specified standards:
         a.   Family Community Residences shall:
            i.   Be located at least six hundred and sixty feet (660') from
another Community Residence; and
            ii.   Have obtained, by the applicant or sponsoring agency, a state
license or certification or that the sponsoring agency is licensed by the state
to operate Community Residences.
         b.   Group Community Residences shall:
            i.   Be located at least six hundred and sixty feet (660') from
other Community Residence; and
            ii.   Have obtained, by the applicant or sponsoring agency, a state
license or certification or that the sponsoring agency is licensed by the state
to operate Community Residences.
      2.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and
R-4 Single-Family Residence Zoning Districts: In addition to the requirements
for all Special Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified
standards.
         a.   Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Centers shall:
            i.   Be restricted to a free-standing building, which building
shall exclude all retail uses but shall permit medical offices and a pharmacy
as permissible accessory uses of the Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Center;
            ii.   Provide, as part of the building, a loading facility for the
use of ambulances, which facility shall not be used for other vehicles;
            iii.   Provide an approved plan for vehicular ingress and egress,
said approval to take the form of a certificate signed by the Police Chief,
Fire Chief and the Director of Community Development, certifying that the plan
for ingress and egress proposed by the user will not interfere with either
highway or abutting users’ traffic or increase the risk to persons or property;
and
            iv.   Meet the requirements of this Chapter as they apply to the OT
Zoning District.
         b.   Family Community Residences located within six hundred and sixty
feet (660') from other Community Residences shall meet the following standards:
            i.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees find that the cumulative
effect of such uses would not alter the residential character of the
neighborhood, would not create an institutional setting and its operation would
not create an adverse effect on surrounding properties; and
            ii.   The Community Residence shall have obtained, by the applicant
or sponsoring agency, a state license or certification or that the sponsoring
agency is licensed by the state to operate Community Residences.
         c.   Group Community Residences located within six hundred and sixty
feet (660') from other Community Residences shall meet the following standards:
            i.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees find that the cumulative
effect of such uses would not alter the residential character of the
neighborhood, would not create an institutional setting and, by its operation,
would not create an adverse effect on surrounding properties;
            ii.   Prior to admitting residents, the operator of such residences
shall demonstrate that the dwelling will comply with all applicable licensing
and Village Code standards;
            iii.   The applicant shall submit a statement of the exact nature
of the residence, the qualifications of the agency that will operate the
residence, the number and type of personnel who will be employed and the number
and nature of the residents who will live in the residence;
            iv.   The residence shall, to the extent possible, conform to the
type and outward appearances of the residences in the area in which it is
located, and
            v.   The Community Residence shall have obtained, by the applicant
or sponsoring agency, a state license or certification or that the sponsoring
agency is licensed by the state to operate Community Residences.
      3.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-3 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District for Special Uses: In addition to the requirements for all Special
Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2150.png]
Figure 7.4
         a.   Single-family detached units within the area designated on Figure
7.4 shall be subject to the regulations of the Special Use under which they
were developed, including the following site properties:
            i.   Minimum Lot Area – 7,000 square feet; providing, however, that
in tracts containing more than fifty (50) lots, fifty (50%) percent of said
lots may have a minimum lot area of six thousand (6,000') square feet;
            ii.   Minimum Lot Width – Sixty (60') feet, as measured at front
building setback line;
            iii.   Front Building Setback Line – Twenty (20') feet, with
minimum driveway length of twenty-five (25') feet. No driveway shall be
permitted on the fifteen (15') feet setback side of corner lots;
            iv.   Corner Lot Side Yard Setback from adjacent street – Fifteen
(15') feet.
         b.   Modifications to the Subdivision Control Ordinance may be granted
as part of a Special Use permit within the R-3 Zoning District as follows:
            i.   Local Street Rights-of-Way – Minimum fifty (50') feet, except
a residential collector street shall have an eighty (80') foot right-of-way
with forty (40') feet back of curb to back of curb pavement;
            ii.   Cul-de-sac end Right-of-way – Forty-five (45') feet radius;
            iii.   Street trees – Location and number as approved by the
Village but in no event less than the equivalent required under the Subdivision
Control Ordinance
      4.   Supplemental Regulations in the R-4 Single-Family Residence Zoning
District for Special Uses: In addition to the requirements for all Special
Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified standards.
         a.   Skilled Care Housing shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
            i.   Have a minimum lot size of sixty thousand (60,000') square
feet in area;
            ii.   Not exceed thirty-five feet (35') or three (3) stories in
height;
            iii.   Maintain a minimum front, side and rear yard of thirty feet
(30');
            iv.   Have a floor area ratio not exceeding 0.5;
            v.   Provide central kitchen and food preparing facilities; no
kitchens to be constructed in conjunction with rooms or apartments;
            vi.   Each sleeping room shall be provided with individual
bathrooms and toilet facilities;
            vii.   Provide vehicular parking as follows: One parking space for
each three (3) beds, plus an additional parking space for each two (2)
employees on duty, but in no event shall the number of parking spaces be less
than one space for each eight hundred (800) square feet of building area;
            viii.   Be equipped with automatic sprinkler systems directly
connected to the Fire Department communications center; and
            ix.   Provide twenty-four (24) hour nursing supervision of the
patients.
         b.   Special Use may be granted for the R-4 Zoning District (Planned
Development) permitting a density not to exceed five (5) dwelling units per
acre; said dwelling units to represent a combination of single-family detached
and attached and multi-family units, provided the Planned Development
procedures set forth in Chapter 5 of this Ordinance are followed, and provided
the following standards are met by the developer:
            i.   The tract of land must be under single ownership and/or
unified control, having not less than one hundred (100) acres or be a parcel
adjoining an existing area which has already been placed under the Planned
Development procedures;
            ii.   The area in question must be determined to be eligible for
Planned Development as determined by the Village Comprehensive Plan;
            iii.   The uses proposed in the Planned Development must be of the
type and so located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon
surrounding properties;
            iv.   All detached dwelling units shall be placed on subdivided
lots and adhere to the requirements of the R-3 Zoning District; and
            v.   Regulations of the area of the Planned Development not
subdivided into lots, shall be as follows:
               1.   Fifty percent (50%) or more of said area not subdivided
into lots shall remain common open space;
               2.   No building shall be placed within fifteen feet (15') of
any street, road, private or public right-of-way or parking lot for motor
vehicles. Delivery and service lanes are not excluded;
               3.   The space between one story buildings shall be a minimum of
sixteen feet (16');
               4.   The minimum distance between buildings of any other
classification shall be equal to the height of the taller building; provided,
however, that if the shortest distance between buildings is measured from the
corner of one to the corner of the other, and the walls of the two (2)
buildings do not overlap, then the distance between the two buildings shall be
not less than fifty percent (50%) of the height of the taller building;
               5.   No attached dwelling shall contain more than eight (8)
dwelling units. This requirement shall not apply to single- or multi-story
apartment buildings where all living space is located on one floor;
               6.   No building shall exceed sixty feet (60') or six (6)
stories in height;
               7.   Elevators shall be provided as required by the current
State of Illinois Accessibility Code and other applicable federal codes;
               8.   The number of apartments and single-family attached units
shall not exceed the number of single-family detached dwelling units unless
one-half (1/2) of the latter has been constructed;
               9.   All common open space, streets, parking areas and
recreational facilities shall
be conveyed to a Municipal corporation or to a not-for-profit corporation or
like entity and shall be subject to the right of said corporation to impose a
legally enforceable lien for maintenance and improvement of the common open
space and other facilities intended for private use and which are not publicly
maintained; and
               10.   The area within the Planned Development proposed for
commercial convenience uses shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000') square
feet or one and one-half percent (1.5%), whichever is less, of the total
building floor area of the Planned Development.
      5.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-1, A-2 and A-3 Multiple-Family
Residence Zoning Districts Special Uses: In addition to the requirements for
all Special Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified
standards.
         a.   Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Centers shall:
            i.   Be restricted to a free-standing building, which building
shall exclude all retail uses but shall permit medical offices and a pharmacy
as permissible accessory uses of the Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Center;
            ii.   Provide, as part of the building, a loading facility for the
use of ambulances, which facility shall not be used for other vehicles;
            iii.   Provide an approved plan for vehicular ingress and egress,
said approval to take the form of a certificate signed by the Police Chief,
Fire Chief and the Director of Community Development, certifying that the plan
for ingress and egress proposed by the user will not interfere with either
highway or abutting users’ traffic or increase the risk to persons or property;
and
            iv.   Meet the requirements of this Chapter as they apply to the OT
Zoning District.
         b.   Family Community Residences shall meet the following standards:
            i.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees find that the cumulative
effect of such uses would not alter the residential character of the
neighborhood, would not create an institutional setting and its operation would
not create an adverse effect on surrounding properties; and
            ii.   The Community Residence shall have obtained, by the applicant
or sponsoring agency, a state license or certification or that the sponsoring
agency is licensed by the state to operate Community Residences.
         c.   Group Community Residences shall meet the following standards:
            i.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees find that the cumulative
effect of such uses would not alter the residential character of the
neighborhood, would not create an institutional setting and, by its operation,
would not create an adverse effect on surrounding properties;
            ii.   Prior to admitting residents, the operator of such residences
shall demonstrate that the dwelling will comply with all applicable licensing
and Village Code standards;
            iii.   The applicant shall submit a statement of the exact nature
of the residence, the qualifications of the agency that will operate the
residence, the number and type of personnel who will be employed and the number
and nature of the residents who will live in the residence;
            iv.   The residence shall, to the extent possible, conform to the
type and outward appearances of the residences in the area in which it is
located; and
            v.   The Community Residence shall have obtained, by the applicant
or sponsoring agency, a state license or certification or that the sponsoring
agency is licensed by the state to operate Community Residences.
      6.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-1 and A-2 Multiple-Family
Residence Zoning Districts Special Uses: In addition to the requirements for
all Special Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified
standards.
         a.   Skilled Care Housing shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
            i.   Have a minimum lot size of sixty thousand (60,000) square feet
in area;
            ii.   Not exceed thirty-five feet (35') or three (3) stories in
height;
            iii.   Maintain a minimum front, side and rear yard of thirty feet
(30’);
            iv.   Have a floor area ratio of not exceeding one-half (0.5);
            v.   Provide central kitchen and food preparing facilities; no
kitchens to be constructed in conjunction with rooms or apartments;
            vi.   Each sleeping room shall be provided with individual
bathrooms and toilet facilities;
            vii.   Provide vehicular parking as follows: One parking space for
each three (3) beds, plus an additional parking space for each two (2)
employees on duty, but in no event shall the number of parking spaces be less
than one space for each eight hundred (800) square feet of building area;
            viii.   Be equipped with automatic sprinkler systems directly
connected to the Fire Department communications center; and
            ix.   Provide twenty-four (24) hour nursing supervision of the
patients.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-1 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District for Conditional Uses: Single-family attached dwellings may be
permitted in the A-1 Zoning District, provided the number of dwelling units
shall not exceed an average of ten (10) units per acre.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-1 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District Special Uses: In addition to the requirements for all Special Uses,
the following uses shall meet the additional specified standards.
         a.   Multi-Family Dwelling Units may be considered as a Special Use,
provided:
            i.   The number of dwelling units shall not exceed an average of
ten (10) units per acre;
            ii.   Multi-family and/or single-family dwellings at a density up
to thirteen (13) dwelling units per acre may be considered per the Planned
Development process in Chapter 5 if on a tract of land under single ownership
and/or unified control and not less than ten (10) acres, or a parcel adjoining
an existing area developed under Planned Development;
            iii.   The area in question must be determined to be eligible for
Planned Development as determined by the Village Comprehensive Plan;
            iv.   The proposed Planned Development must be of the type and so
located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon surrounding
properties;
            v.   All detached dwelling units shall be placed on subdivided lots
and adhere to the requirements of the R-3 Zoning District; and
            vi.   Regulations of the area of the Planned Development not
subdivided into lots, shall be as follows:
               1.   Fifty percent (50%) or more of said area not subdivided
into lots shall remain common open space;
               2.   No building shall be placed within fifteen feet (15') of
any street, road, private or public right-of-way or parking lot for motor
vehicles. Delivery and service lanes are not excluded;
               3.   The space between one story buildings shall be a minimum of
sixteen feet (16');
               4.   The minimum distance between buildings of any other
classification shall be equal to the height of the taller building; provided,
however, that if the shortest distance between buildings is measured from the
corner of one to the corner of the other, and the walls of the two (2)
buildings do not overlap, then the distance between the two (2) buildings shall
be not less than fifty percent (50%) of the height of the taller building;
               5.   No attached dwelling shall contain more than eight (8)
dwelling units. This requirement shall not apply to single- or multi-story
apartment buildings where all living space is located on one floor;
               6.   No building shall exceed sixty feet (60') or six (6)
stories in height;
               7.   Elevators shall be provided as required by the current
State of Illinois Accessibility Code and other applicable federal codes;
               8.   All common open space, streets, parking areas and
recreational facilities shall be conveyed to a Municipal corporation or to a
not-for-profit corporation or like entity and shall be subject to the right of
said corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the common open space and other facilities intended for private
use and which are not publicly maintained; and
               9.   The area within the Planned Development proposed for
commercial convenience uses shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000') square
feet or one and one-half percent (1.5%), whichever is less, of the total
building floor area of the Planned Development.
      9.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-2 Multiple-Family Residence Zoning
District for Conditional Uses:
         a.   Multi-Family Dwelling Units shall be permitted, provided:
            i.   The number of dwelling units shall not exceed an average of
fifteen (15) units per acre; and
            ii.   The maximum height of buildings and structures shall be as
provided in Section 7-1 of this Chapter; provided that, where at least fifty
percent (50%) of the off-street parking spaces required under the terms of this
Ordinance are provided in an underground garage, then said maximum height
limitation may be exceeded by one foot (1') for each additional one and one-
half feet (1 1/2') by which all minimum yard requirement of Section 7-1 are
exceeded; provided, that the maximum height permitted shall not exceed sixty
feet (60').
      10.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-2 Multiple-Family Residence
Zoning District for Special Uses. In addition to the requirements for all
Special Uses, the following uses shall meet the additional specified standards:
         a.   Multi-Family and/or Single-Family Dwellings: A Special Use may be
issued in the A-2 Zoning District permitting multi-family and/or single-family
dwellings at a density not to exceed twenty (20) dwelling units per acre;
provided, however, that the Planned Development procedures as set forth in
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance are abided by, and provided the following standards
are met:
            i.   The tract of land under consideration be under single
ownership and/or unified control having not less than ten (10) acres or be a
parcel adjoining an existing tract under the Planned Development procedure;
            ii.   The area in question must be determined to be eligible for
Planned Development as determined by the Village Comprehensive Plan;
            iii.   The proposed Planned Development must be of the type and so
located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon surrounding
properties; and
            iv.   All detached dwelling units shall be placed on subdivided
lots and adhere to the requirements of the R-3 Zoning District;
            v.   Regulations of the area of the Planned Development not
subdivided into lots, shall be as follows:
               1.   Fifty percent (50%) or more of said area not subdivided
into lots shall remain common open space;
               2.   No building shall be placed within fifteen feet (15') of
any street, road, private or public right-of-way or parking lot for motor
vehicles. Delivery and service lanes are not excluded;
               3.   The space between one story buildings shall be a minimum of
sixteen feet (16');
               4.   The minimum distance between buildings of any other
classification shall be equal to the height of the taller building; provided,
however, that if the shortest distance between buildings is measured from the
corner of one to the corner of the other, and the walls of the two (2)
buildings do not overlap, then the distance between the two (2) buildings shall
be not less than fifty percent (50%) of the height of the taller building;
               5.   No attached dwelling shall contain more than eight (8)
dwelling units. This requirement shall not apply to single- or multi-story
apartment buildings where all living space is located on one floor;
               6.   No building shall exceed sixty feet (60') or six (6)
stories in height;
               7.   Elevators shall be provided as required by the current
State of Illinois Accessibility Code and other applicable federal codes;
               8.   All common open space, streets, parking areas and
recreational facilities shall be conveyed to a Municipal corporation or to a
not-for-profit corporation or like entity and shall be subject to the right of
said corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the common open space and other facilities intended for private
use and which are not publicly maintained; and
               9.   The area within the Planned Development proposed for
commercial convenience uses shall not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet or one and one-half percent (1.5%), whichever is less, of the total
building floor area of the Planned Development.
         b.   Senior Independent Living: A Special Use permit may be issued in
the A-2 Zoning District to permit Senior Independent Living, provided the
standards and conditions hereinafter set forth are adhered to. Such housing may
include planned housing environment for adults that caters to the special needs
of senior residents, who are capable of independent living, yet may need
certain supportive, recreational and social facilities or services to
compensate for declining social networks, physical mobility, perception and
cognition.
            i.   Standards:
               1.   The tract of land which may be made up of smaller parcels
must be under single ownership and/or unified control, having at least two and
one-half (2.5) acres, or be a parcel adjoining an existing area which has
already received Special Use within the A-2 Zoning District;
               2.   The area must be comprehensively planned and designed as
one development, though it may be built in phases;
               3.   Senior Independent Living shall provide space for common
supportive, recreational and social facilities or services of not less than
sixty (60') square feet per dwelling unit in order to support the residential
function and enhance the lives of the residents;
               4.   The following shall not be included in the calculation of
space for common, supportive, recreational and social services: hallways,
stairwells, elevators, mechanical rooms, offices, storage, employee areas and
public restrooms;
               5.   A commercial kitchen and common dining room shall be
required;
               6.   Related ancillary uses may include, but not be limited to,
barber/beauty shop, doctor’s office and other such service providers to enhance
the well-being of residents; and
               7.   All standards as required by the licensing provisions as
established elsewhere in the Elk Grove Village Code.
         c.   Mobile Home Parks: In addition to other standards for a Special
Use, the following standards also apply when considering a Special Use permit
for a Mobile Home Park in the A-2 Zoning District.
            i.   Lot and Setback Requirements:
               1.   Minimum Lot Area: Eight (8) acres;
               2.   Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard Line: Forty (40') Feet;
               3.   Minimum Front Yard Setback: Fifteen (15') Feet;
               4.   Minimum Interior Side Yard Setback: Six (6') Feet;
               5.   Minimum Corner Side Yard Setback: Fifteen (15') Feet;
               6.   Minimum Rear Yard Setback: Fifteen (15') Feet.
            ii.   Boundary Landscaping: Twenty-five (25') feet boundary
landscaping is required around the perimeter of all newly developed Mobile Home
Parks. This buffer yard shall be in addition to any other setback or yard area
requirement and must be approved by the Village;
            iii.   Landscape Screening: Landscape screening by trees or compact
hedge of at least seventy-five (75%) percent opacity shall be provided along
all property lines of the Mobile Home Park;
            iv.   Minimum Separation: A minimum separation of ten feet (10')
shall be maintained between a mobile home and any other structure;
            v.   Access: Every mobile home lot shall have access to and abut a
private driveway. The driveway shall have an unobstructed access to a public
thoroughfare;
            vi.   Street and Driveways: All streets and driveways, in every
Mobile Home Park, shall be paved with a minimum width of twenty-four feet
(24');
            vii.   Common Open Space: Common Open Space equal to two hundred
fifty (250') square feet per home shall be provided at common locations within
the Mobile Home Park.
            viii.   Designated Operator: Every Mobile Home Park shall have a
designated operator. The operator shall provide the Zoning Administrator with
their name, office hours, office mailing address and emergency contact persons
and numbers;
            ix.   Maintenance: It shall be the duty of the Mobile Home Park
Operator to secure the maintenance of the park and ensure that the park meets
all applicable state or local laws, ordinances or regulations;
            x.   Incidental Retail Sales: Incidental retail sales of mobile
homes may be permitted in a Mobile Home Park provided no mobile home models are
located on the site of the Mobile Home Park;
            xi.   One for One Replacement: For the purposes of this Title, the
one to one replacement of a mobile home with another mobile home shall be
permitted unless otherwise prohibited by Village Ordinance;
            xii.   Signs: A map, directory or sign shall be erected at each
entrance to the Mobile Home Park, which identifies the exact location of each
mobile home and mobile home site; and
            xiii.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings, structures and
uses, such as laundry facilities and storage areas, shall be for the sole use
of the residents of the Mobile Home Park. Offices shall be used only in the
management and operation of the Mobile Home Park.
      11.   Supplemental Regulations in the A-3 Multiple-Family Recreational
Zoning District:
         a.   The following general requirements shall be applicable:
            i.   A-3 Zoning Districts shall encompass not less than twenty (20)
acres in area;
            ii.   Initially, fifty-five percent (55%) or more of the total
acreage is intended to be dedicated or conveyed to a Municipal entity and used
for general recreational purposes for residents of Elk Grove Village and the
public at large;
            iii.   All present and future open space or recreational
requirements for a Multi-Family Recreational Zoning District shall be met by
those portions of a Multi-Family Recreational Zoning District designated for
general recreational purposes, and no separate open space or recreational
requirements shall exist for those portions of the Zoning District designated
for multi-family dwellings, except as specifically required as a condition of
rezoning or as a condition for approval of the conceptual use and Zoning Map;
            iv.   The aggregate number of dwelling units within all portions of
the zoning district shall not exceed six (6) units per acre, such acreage to
include the total land within the Multi-Family Recreational Zoning District
based upon the perimeter boundaries of the legal description of the zoning
district taken as a whole including all rights-of-way; provided, however, any
individual phase of development can have a greater or lesser density per acre
so long as the maximum density for the total zoning district does not exceed
the aggregate units set forth herein;
            v.   The total number of bedrooms shall not exceed three (3)
bedrooms multiplied by the aggregate number of dwelling units actually built
within the zoning district; provided, however, any individual phase of
development can have a greater or lesser number of bedrooms per unit so long as
the maximum number of bedrooms actually built for the total zoning district
does not exceed the aggregate limit set forth within;
            vi.   No building shall be placed within a) twenty-five feet (25')
from a State or County right-of-way; or b) a distance equal to the height of
any building located in proximately to a State or County right-of-way,
whichever is greater. The minimum distance from any building to any other
street, road, private or public right-of-way, parking lot or delivery and
service lanes for motor vehicles shall be fifteen feet (15');
            vii.   The space between two (2) one story buildings shall be a
minimum of sixteen feet
(16'). The minimum distance between buildings, either one of which is greater
than one story, shall be equal to the height of the taller building; provided,
however, that if the shortest distance between buildings is measured from the
corner of one to the corner of the other and the walls of the two (2) buildings
do not overlap, then the distance between the two (2) buildings shall be not
less than fifty percent (50%) of the height of the taller building;
            viii.   There shall be no setback or yard requirements for multi-
family dwelling parcels within a Multi-Family Recreational Zoning District
except as otherwise set forth herein as it relates to such zoning district.
            ix.   No building shall exceed the lesser of sixty feet (60') or
six (6) stories in height.
            x.   Elevators shall be provided as required by the current State
of Illinois Accessibility Code and other applicable federal codes;
            xi.   All buildings must adhere to applicable State or Federal
accessibility standards;
            xii.   In a two (2) story building uniformly having two (2) story
attached dwelling units throughout, there shall be no more than eight (8)
dwelling units. However, in such a two (2) story building, two (2) one story
units stacked one over the other may be substituted for one two (2) story unit
up to a maximum of fifteen (15) units in a building. At the time of the
approval of the final land use map, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may impose
upon two (2) story buildings not described herein such dwelling unit
limitations as it deems appropriate;
            xiii.   All streets, driveways, parking areas, open space and
recreational facilities, if any, intended for public use shall be conveyed to a
Municipal corporation;
            xiv.   All driveways, parking areas, open space and recreational
facilities, if any, intended for private use shall be conveyed to a not-for-
profit corporation or like entity and shall be subject to the right of such
corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the open space and other facilities intended solely for private
use and which are not publicly maintained;
            xv.   The provisions of Chapter 4 of this Ordinance, Off-Street
Parking and Loading, are specifically applicable to the Multi-Family
Recreational Zoning District. The Mayor and Board of Trustees may establish
greater or lesser parking requirements or limitations as conditions to the
approval of the conceptual land use and Zoning Map;
            xvi.   The provisions of Section 8-11-5 of the Elk Grove Village
Code shall be specifically applicable to the Multi-Family Recreational Zoning
District; and
            xvii.   For the purpose of the Multi-Family Recreational Zoning
District, the height of the building shall mean the vertical distance from the
highest finished grade at the building foundation to the top of the highest
roof beams of a flat roof or the mean elevation of the highest gable or slope
of a hip roof. If the highest finished grade is artificially created by berming
against the building foundation, then the highest finished grade shall not be
more than three feet (3') above finished grade at a point located twenty-five
feet (25') from the building foundation along a line perpendicular to the
foundation at the point of highest finished grade.
         b.   Subdivision Control: The provisions of the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of the Village of Elk Grove Village shall govern the Multi-Family
Recreational Zoning District except as set forth in any conditions to the
conceptual land use and Zoning Map.
 
§ 7-3 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   7-3-A. B-1 Business Zoning District: Shopping Center
B-1 Business District: Shopping Center
B-1 Business District: Shopping Center
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 5 Acres
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 150
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  0 or 501
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           0 or 501
Maximum Ground Coverage                    20%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              2 stories or 352
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   0.2
1. When lot abuts residential zoning district
2. Whichever is more restrictive.
 
      1.   Purpose: The B-1 Shopping Center Zoning District provides for
convenience shopping primarily for persons residing in nearby residential
areas, and generally are located along major and arterial streets.
      Uses in the B-1 Zoning District are generally retail and service oriented
and intended to be compatible with each other. Development in this district is
intended to be developed in such a way to support local shopping and mitigate
potential traffic impacts.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-1 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the B-1 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-1 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements. Parking requirements in the B-1 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations. Bulk regulations in the B-1 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.8: B-1 Business District: Shopping Center Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2152.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the B-1 Zoning District:
         a.   All uses, as listed in the Land Use Table 7-2, in the B-1 Zoning
District shall be for retail trade or services dealing directly with the
customer. All goods produced or processed on the premises will be sold, at
retail, on the premises where produced or processed. Processes in connection
with consumer services to be permitted only if performed for a consumer served
upon the premises.
         b.   All sales, services and display shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance or,
in the case of outdoor sales, is authorized by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
         c.   Parking areas shall be located on the same lot or parcel of land
as the shopping facilities.
         d.   All developments requiring Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-G of
this Ordinance shall be subject to that process prior to issuance of a Building
Permit.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the B-1 Zoning
District:
         a.   Parking: Provisions for parking in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance unless premises are part of a shopping center, in which event,
parking requirements shall be additional to those made for the shopping center,
unless the owner of the shopping center and proposed uses satisfy the Mayor and
Board of Trustees by competent evidence that the needs of the user can be
satisfied from the parking allocated to the shopping center itself.
         b.   Ingress and Egress: An approved plan for ingress and egress shall
be required for all Conditional Uses not otherwise subject to Site Plan Review,
as defined in Section 8-3-G of this Ordinance. Said approval to take the form
of a certificate signed by the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of
Community Development certifying that the plan for ingress and egress proposed
by the user will not interfere with either highway, shopping center or abutting
users’ traffic nor increase the risk of danger to persons or property.
         c.   All Outdoor Dining and Outdoor Sales shall be subject to review
and approval by the
Village.
         d.   Microbrewery/Brew Pub, Microdistillery and Microwinery with
Tasting Rooms:
            i.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance for establishments with tasting rooms along with one parking
space per employee on largest shift plus one parking space per company vehicle.
            ii.   Outdoor dining and seating areas shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
               1.   Emergency exits;
               2.   Decorative fencing to restrict access; and
               3.   Trash and recycling receptacles.
               Outdoor dining and seating areas are subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator. Additional considerations such as
proximity to adjacent properties, hours of operation, size of the area along
with other factors must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
            iii.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area may be
utilized for manufacturing.
      9.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in the B-1 Zoning
District: In addition to other standards to be considered for a Special Use in
the B-1 Zoning District, the following uses shall meet the additional specified
standards:
         a.   Warehousing and Distribution of Goods:
            i.   All storage shall be inside;
            ii.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the floor area of the
building may be utilized for warehousing and distribution;
            iii.   Shipments of goods, products and supplies may be broken down
and repackaged for warehousing and distribution purposes;
            iv.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission; and
            v.   No motor freight terminals shall be permitted as a part of the
Special Use.
         b.   Veterinary Outpatient Clinics:
            i.   There shall be no boarding of animals of any kind except for
those animals so ill that the personal attention of a doctor of veterinary
medicine is required or those animals recovering from surgery; providing, that
any such boarding facility permitted be situated in the clinic and not attached
thereto;
            ii.   All business must be conducted within a completely enclosed
building, and no outdoor kennel of any kind shall be permitted;
            iii.   Side and rear yard requirements shall be in accordance with
the I-1 Zoning District; and
            iv.   Incinerators, lime pits or other facilities for the
destruction of animal waste or corpse of any type shall not be permitted.
         c.   Brew Pubs, Microbreweries, Microwineries and Microdistilleries
utilizing more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area for manufacturing or
similar production of products:
            i.   All storage must be inside; and
            ii.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission.
   7-3-B. B-2 Business Zoning District: General Business
B-2 Business District: General Business
B-2 Business District: General Business
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 22,500
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 150
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  0 or 751
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           0 or 751
Maximum Ground Coverage                    50%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              2 stories or 352
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   1.0
1. When lot abuts residential district
2. Whichever is more restrictive
 
      1.   Purpose: The B-2 General Business Zoning District permits a wider
range of retail business and consumer service uses. It is not intended for
wholesale uses or wholesale storage of merchandise, unless in connection with
an approved use. The district generally is located on major arterial streets.
      Uses in the B-2 Zoning District are intended as retail trade or services
dealing directly with the consumer. Any goods produced or processed on the
premises are sold, at retail, on the premises where produced or processed.
Similarly, processing in connection with consumer services, if performed, are
for consumers served on the premises.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-2 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the B-2 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-2 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-2 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-2 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.9: B-2 Business District: General Business Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2154.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the B-2 Zoning District:
Yard Requirements: No building shall be constructed within twenty-five feet
(25') of any front lot line in the B-2 Zoning District; no other yard
requirement shall apply to the location of buildings and structures in said
zone unless it adjoins a residential zoning district, in which event, no
structure shall be placed within seventy-five feet (75') of the boundary of
said residential district.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the B-2 Zoning
District:
         a.   All sales, services and display shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance or,
in the case of outdoor sales, is authorized by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
         b.   Business and Trade Schools:
            i.   Instruction and/or training shall be limited to classroom
activities only;
            ii.   All on-site instruction and/or training shall be conducted
within completely enclosed buildings;
            iii.   There shall be no use of on-site industrial machinery for
training purposes;
            iv.   No industrial vehicle other than passenger cars, pickup
trucks or vans shall be permitted;
            v.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance; and
            vi.   No dormitories or resident facilities shall be permitted.
         c.   Microbrewery/Brew Pub, Microdistillery and Microwinery with
Tasting Rooms:
            i.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance for establishments with tasting rooms along with one parking
space per employee on largest shift plus one parking space per company vehicle.
            ii.   Outdoor dining and seating areas shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
               1.   Emergency exits;
               2.   Decorative fencing to restrict access; and
               3.   Trash and recycling receptacles.
               Outdoor dining and seating areas are subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator. Additional considerations such as
proximity to adjacent properties, hours of operation, size of the area along
with other factors must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
            iii.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area may be
utilized for manufacturing.
         d.   Sexually Oriented Businesses:
            i.   Subject to the following conditions a sexually oriented
business is a Conditional Use in the portions of the B-2 Zoning District east
of Busse Road and south of Landmeier Road, provided no such use shall be
established, or maintained within a premises which is located within five
hundred feet (500') of:
               1.   A religious institution;
               2.   A school;
               3.   A boundary of a residential zoning district as shown by the
Village’s official Zoning Map;
               4.   A public park as shown by the Village’s official Zoning
Map;
               5.   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; and
               6.   Another sexually oriented business whether such other
business is or is not within the corporate limits of the Village.
            ii.   For the purposes of this use, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a religious institution or school or to the nearest boundary
of an affected public park, residential zoning district or residential lot.
            iii.   For purposes of this use, the distance between any two (2)
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
            iv.   Sexually oriented businesses are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and locations other than the areas set forth in this
Ordinance.
      9.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in the B-2 Zoning
District: In addition to other standards to be considered for a Special Use in
the B-2 Zoning District, the following conditions and procedures shall be
required as a minimum for such Special Use to be granted:
         a.   Drive-thru facilities:
            i.   The drive-thru facilities shall be adequately screened from
any adjoining property zoned as a residential zoning district; and
            ii.   If there are other establishments within the building in
which the drive-thru facility is located, the area devoted to the drive-thru
facility shall be at the end of the building.
         b.   Manufacturing (Limited) of goods which will be sold at retail on
the premises where produced and which will be distributed to company owned
retail facilities off the premises.
            i.   The use shall only be permitted on a parcel of land two (2.0)
acres or greater in area.
            ii.   The use shall only be permitted on a parcel of land having
direct access to one of the industrial or commercial major arterial streets
listed below:
               1.   Busse Road;
               2.   Devon Avenue (east of Ridge Avenue);
               3.   Elmhurst Road;
               4.   Higgins Road;
               5.   Landmeier Road (east of Lively Boulevard);
               6.   Oakton Street (east of Lively Boulevard).
            iii.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission.
         c.   Veterinary Outpatient Clinics:
            i.   There shall be no boarding of animals of any kind except for
those animals so ill that the personal attention of a doctor of veterinary
medicine is required or those animals recovering from surgery; providing, that
any such boarding facility permitted be situated in the clinic and not attached
thereto;
            ii.   All business must be conducted within a completely enclosed
building, and no outdoor kennel of any kind shall be permitted;
            iii.   Side and rear yard requirements shall be in accordance with
the I-1 Zoning District; and
            iv.   Incinerators, lime pits or other facilities for the
destruction of animal waste or corpse of any type shall not be permitted.
         d.   Warehousing and distribution of goods, products and supplies,
provided such use is an accessory use to a Permitted Use within the zoning
district:
            i.   All storage shall be inside;
            ii.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the floor area of the
building may be utilized for warehousing and distributions;
            iii.   Shipments of goods, products and supplies may be broken down
and repackaged for warehousing and distribution purposes;
            iv.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission; and
            v.   No motor freight terminals or other prohibited uses shall be
permitted as a part of the Special Use.
         e.   Brew Pubs, Microbreweries, Microwineries and Microdistilleries
utilizing more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area for manufacturing or
similar production of products.
            i.   All storage must be inside; and
            ii.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission.
   7-3-C. B-3 Business Zoning District: Automotive Oriented
B-3 Business District: Automotive Oriented
B-3 Business District: Automotive Oriented
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 22,500
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 150
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  0 or 751
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           0 or 751
Maximum Ground Coverage                    50%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              2 stories or 352
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   0.5
1. When lot abuts residential district
2. Whichever is more restrictive
 
      1.   Purpose: The B-3 Automotive Oriented Business Zoning District is
intended to provide products and services that relate to the automobile,
accompany its use or where the automobile is necessary to the transaction of
business. This district is located along major arterial roads. The uses are to
be compatible with each other and located in such a way to afford ease of
access and traffic safety.
      Uses in the B-3 Business Zoning District are for retail trade or services
dealing directly with the consumer. All goods produced or processed on the
premises are sold, at retail, on the premises where produced or processed.
Similarly, processing in connection with consumer services, if performed, are
for consumers served on the premises.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-3 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the B-3 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-3 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-3 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-3 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.10: B-3 Business District: Automotive Oriented Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2156.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the B-3 Zoning District:
         a.   Yard Requirements: No building shall be constructed within
twenty-five feet (25') of any front lot line in the B-3 Zoning District; no
other yard requirement shall apply to the location of buildings in said zoning
district unless it adjoins a residential zoning district, in which event, no
structure shall be placed within seventy-five feet (75') of the boundary of any
such residential district.
         b.   All sales, services and display shall take place within
completely enclosed buildings, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance or,
in the case of outdoor sales, is authorized by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the B-3 Zoning
District:
         a.   Regulations for all B-3 Zoning District Conditional Uses:
            i.   All B-3 Zoning District Conditional Uses shall front on one of
the major arterial streets listed below, or be adjacent to another B-3 Zoning
District Conditional Use:
               1.   Busse Road;
               2.   Devon Avenue;
               3.   Elmhurst Road;
               4.   Higgins Road;
               5.   Landmeier Road (east of Lively Boulevard);
               6.   Nerge Road (east of Rohlwing Road);
               7.   Oakton Street (east of Lively Boulevard).
            ii.   An approved plan for ingress and egress shall be required for
all Conditional Uses not otherwise subject to Site Plan Review, as defined in
Section 8-3-G of this Ordinance. Said approval to take the form of a
certificate signed by the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of Community
Development certifying that the plan for ingress and egress proposed by the
user will not interfere with either highway, shopping center or abutting users’
traffic nor increase the risk of danger to persons or property.
            iii.   Any Conditional Use granted herein may be located adjacent
to or in the same building as other B-3 Zoning District uses and I-1 and I-
2 Zoning District uses.
         b.   Microbrewery/Brew Pub, Microdistillery and Microwinery with
Tasting Rooms:
            i.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance for establishments with tasting rooms along with one parking
space per employee on largest shift plus one parking space per company vehicle.
            ii.   Outdoor dining and seating areas shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
               1.   Emergency exits;
               2.   Decorative fencing to restrict access; and
               3.   Trash and recycling receptacles.
               Outdoor dining and seating areas are subject to the review and
approval of the Zoning Administrator. Additional considerations such as
proximity to adjacent properties, hours of operation, size of the area along
with other factors must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
            iii.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area may be
utilized for manufacturing.
         c.   Sexually Oriented Businesses:
            i.   Subject to the following conditions a sexually oriented
business is a Conditional Use in the portions of the B-3 Zoning District east
of Busse Road and south of Landmeier Road, provided no such use shall be
established, or maintained within a premises which is located within five
hundred feet (500') of:
               1.   A religious institution;
               2.   A school;
               3.   A boundary of a residential zoning district as shown by the
Village’s Official Zoning Map;
               4.   A public park as shown by the Village’s Official Zoning
Map;
               5.   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use;
               6.   Another sexually oriented business whether such other
business is or is not within the corporate limits of the Village.
            ii.   For the purposes of this use, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from
the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a religious institution or school or to the nearest boundary
of an affected public park, residential zoning district or residential lot.
            iii.   For purposes of this use, the distance between any two (2)
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
            iv.   Sexually oriented businesses are prohibited in all other
zoning districts and locations other than the areas set forth for this use.
         d.   Vehicle Repair/Maintenance subject to the following conditions:
            i.   All open storage areas for automotive vehicles waiting to be
serviced shall be located behind the principal structure and screened by an
eight foot (8') solid fence or wall. The fence or wall must be black in color
when facing a public street. The type of fence or wall shall be reviewed and
approved by the Zoning Administrator;
            ii.   No vehicle shall be stored for more than thirty (30) days and
no vehicle shall be disassembled on the site except for the purpose of
repairing or replacement of damaged or unusable components thereof;
            iii.   No vehicle or parts thereof shall be rented, leased, sold or
auctioned from the site;
            iv.   All buildings shall meet Building and Life Safety Code
requirements related to auto repair facilities at all times;
            v.   All site, building and parking lot areas shall be maintained
in good repair at all times;
            vi.   On-site inspections by the Village may be conducted to secure
compliance with these conditions; and
            vii.   Site plans subject to Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-G and
confirmation through that process that the site can support said use without
adversely impacting adjacent and nearby properties.
      9.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in the B-3 Zoning
District: In addition to other standards to be considered for a Special Use in
the B-3 Zoning District, the following conditions and procedures shall be
required as a minimum for such Special Use to be granted.
         a.   Manufacturing (Limited) of goods which will be sold at retail on
the premises where produced and which will be distributed to company owned
retail facilities off the premises.
            i.   The use shall only be permitted on a parcel of land two (2.0)
acres or greater in area.
            ii.   The use shall only be permitted on a parcel of land having
direct access to one of the industrial or commercial major arterial streets
listed below:
               1.   Busse Road;
               2.   Devon Avenue (east of Ridge Avenue);
               3.   Elmhurst Road;
               4.   Higgins Road;
               5.   Landmeier Road (east of Lively Boulevard);
               6.   Oakton Street (east of Lively Boulevard).
            iii.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission.
         b.   Warehousing and distribution of goods, products and supplies,
provided such use is an accessory use to a Permitted Use within the zoning
district:
            i.   All storage shall be inside;
            ii.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the floor area of the
building may be utilized for warehousing and distributions;
            iii.   Shipments of goods, products and supplies may be broken down
and repackaged for warehousing and distribution purposes;
            iv.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission; and
            v.   No motor freight terminals or other prohibited uses shall be
permitted as a part of the Special Use.
         c.   Brew Pubs, Microbreweries, Microwineries and Microdistilleries
utilizing more than fifty percent (50%) of the floor area for manufacturing or
similar production of products.
            i.   All storage must be inside; and
            ii.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission.
   7-3-D. B-5 Town Center Shopping District
B-5 Town Center District
B-5 Town Center District
Minimum Lot Area                               10 acres
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) (1) 1501
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)              25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.) (2)  0 or 502
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.) (2)           0 or 502
Maximum Ground Coverage                        20%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)                  50
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                       0.2
1. If property is included in a reciprocal easement agreement with adjacent B-
5 zoned property and the agreement includes ingress and egress provisions,
there is no requirement for a minimum lot width.
2. 50 feet when adjacent to single-family residential.
 
      1.   Purpose: This B-5 Town Center Shopping District provides an upscale
retail area containing considerable private and public recreational amenities
and landscaping located adjacent to a municipal complex so as to create a Town
Center environment. The uses permitted shall be high quality commercial and
service uses housed in architecturally enhanced structures which shall be
compatible with each other and with the Town Center environment.
      All uses in the B-5 Town Center Shopping District shall be for retail
trade or services dealing directly with the consumer. All goods produced or
processed on the premises are sold, at retail, on the premises where produced
or processed.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the B-5 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the B-5 Zoning District are
listed in Table 7-2 or are uses as determined by action and establishment of
conditions by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the B-5 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use
Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the B-5 Zoning
District are listed in Subsection 7-3-D7a.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the B-5 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.11: B-5 Town Center District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2158.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the B-5 Town Center
Shopping District:
         a.   Parking: Five (5) parking spaces shall be required per one
thousand (1,000') square feet of gross floor area and, except as modified
herein, shall be in conformance with the provisions of Chapter 4 of this
Ordinance. Parking spaces shall be not less than nine feet by nineteen feet (9'
x 19') except where parking abuts continuous curbing, in which case the curb
offset area may be landscaped and exempt from paving.
         b.   Landscaping: All landscaping shall be in conformance with an
approved landscaping plan, which plan must be submitted and approved by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees prior to the issuance of any Building Permit for
structures to be located on the property. The landscaping requirements and plan
shall take into consideration the upscale nature of the B-5 Town Center
Shopping District and the Town Center environment created therein. If the
required number of parkway trees cannot be located in the designated parkway
areas, the owner shall satisfy this requirement by placing said trees within or
immediately adjacent to the owner’s property. No shrubbery, hedging or planting
shall interfere with clear vision pursuant to Section 3-2-A of this Ordinance.
         c.   Signs: All signs identifying the B-5 Town Center Shopping
District, any businesses located in the Shopping Center or such other
informational or directional signage, whether permanent or temporary, shall
require a permit. Any individual, firm or corporation requesting a sign permit
shall submit an application to the Director of Community Development. The
application shall include a sign location plan setting forth the number of
signs requested, the size of each sign and the proposed location of all
monument or free-standing identification signs. If applicable, the applicant
shall include a request for any wall signs, projecting signs, canopy or marquee
signs or such other incidental signs which may be requested. Upon a review of
the application and the subject property, the Director of Community Development
shall forward a recommendation to the Mayor and Board of Trustees for their
review and approval. Criteria for the approval of any application for a sign
permit and sign plan may, by ordinance, be set forth in Title 8, Chapter 4 of
the Village Code or, in the alternative, may be established on a case-by-case
basis in the review process set forth herein.
         d.   Loading: In lieu of the off-street loading space requirements set
forth in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance, off-street loading spaces shall be
provided in designated locations throughout the entire area as approved by the
Director of Community Development. The Director shall base any such approval in
part on the off-street loading space requirements in this Ordinance, screening
requirements for off-street loading and such other considerations which are in
conjunction with the intent of this zoning district to create an upscale Town
Center environment.
         e.   Rezoning: Any application for rezoning to the B-5 Town Center
Shopping District shall include a preliminary site plan, which plan shall set
forth the anticipated location of all structures to be constructed on the
subject property. The preliminary plan shall also include ingress and egress to
and from the subject property, traffic regulation including driveway and
parking location and such other information necessary to show compliance with
the provisions of this zoning district. Prior to the issuance of a Building
Permit for the property to be rezoned to the B-5 Town Center Shopping District,
a final site plan shall be submitted to the Village. The final site plan shall
conform substantially to the preliminary plan. The final site plan shall be
reviewed by the Plan Commission and the Mayor and Board of Trustees at a joint
meeting and thereafter shall be formally approved by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. In approving the final site plan, the Mayor and Board of Trustees may
require such special conditions as it deems necessary to ensure conformance
with the intent and the stated purpose of the B-5 Town Center Shopping
District.
         f.   Outdoor Uses: The Mayor and Board of Trustees may, by permit,
allow a B-5 Town Center Shopping District use to extend to and be located
outside the premises including outdoor sales or displays, provided the proposed
outside location is immediately adjacent to the building in which the B-5 Town
Center Shopping District use is housed. Depending on the nature of the outdoor
use, the permit may be temporary or permanent in nature. In determining whether
to issue any such permit, the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall consider
certain factors, including, but not limited to, the following:
            i.   Aesthetics;
            ii.   Compatibility with neighboring uses;
            iii.   The need or benefit derived from the outdoor use;
            iv.   The impact on the shopping center as a whole and the Town
Center concept established by the B-5 Zoning District; and
            v.   The length of time the permit is being requested and the
specific hours of operation.
         The outdoor use shall cease upon the expiration of the date set forth
on the permit or at such earlier date if the outdoor use is negatively
impacting neighboring uses, the shopping center as a whole, or has changed in
nature to the extent that it no longer meets the approved criteria set forth
above. In such event, the Village shall notify the user in writing of the
decision to terminate or revoke the outdoor use permit. The user may appeal, in
a timely manner, such decision to the Mayor and Board of Trustees. The decision
of the Mayor and Board of Trustees with respect to any such appeal shall be
deemed final.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the B-5 Town Center
Shopping District:
         a.   Applications for a B-5 Conditional Use shall be submitted to the
Director of Community Development. Copies of the application shall be submitted
to the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Village Manager. The departments shall
review and consider whether the proposed Conditional Use is consistent with the
purpose statement of this zoning district in addition to the following
considerations:
            i.   Aesthetics;
            ii.   Parking; traffic generation, automobile and truck; vehicle
stacking;
            iii.   Compatibility with neighboring uses;
            iv.   Ingress and egress; and
            v.   Landscaping and/or screening requirements.
         b.   Based on the review by the various departments, a recommendation
shall be made to the Mayor and Board of Trustees concerning the issuance of a
Conditional Use permit.
         c.   Final approval for such Conditional Use shall be made by the
Mayor and Board of Trustees. Said Conditional Use permit may supersede or
provide a variation to the stacking or parking provisions of this Ordinance.
   7-3-E. O-T Office/Transitional Zoning District
O-T Office/Transitional District
O-T Office/Transitional District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 20,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 100'
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25'
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  20 or 751
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           30 or 751
Maximum Ground Coverage                    50%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              3 stories or 35'2
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   1.0
1. When lot abuts residential district
2. Whichever is greater
 
      1.   Purpose: The O-T Office/Transitional Zoning District provides area
used primarily for office spaces and commercial uses, including institutional
uses that conform to the pattern of the zoning district. Uses allowed in the
zoning district are characterized by a low volume of traffic and limited
outdoor advertising so as to mitigate impacts on any nearby residential zoning
districts. This zoning district can be a buffer between residential and
commercial areas.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the O-T Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the O-T Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the O- T Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the O-T Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the O-T Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.12: OT District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2160.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the O-T Zoning District:
         a.   Enclosure of Operations: All business, servicing or processing
shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except:
            i.   Off-street parking or loading; and
            ii.   Accessory uses.
         b.   The parking of trucks, when accessory to the conduct of a
Permitted Use, shall be limited to vehicles not over one and one-half (1.5)
tons’ capacity, except for pickup and delivery services.
         c.   For any charitable, organizational and business association
offices, associated lodge, hall, conference and meeting facilities may not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area of the Permitted Use.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in the O-T Zoning
District: In addition to the requirements for all Special Uses, the following
uses shall meet the additional specified standards.
         a.   All Special Uses: In granting a Special Use for a property
adjacent to the I-1 or I-2 Zoning District, the Plan Commission may recommend
and the Mayor and Board of Trustees may approve that any or all the bulk and
yard requirements of the subject property be modified to conform, in whole or
in part, to the requirements for the adjacent I-1 or I-2 Zoning District.
         b.   Ambulatory Surgical Treatment Centers shall:
            i.   Be restricted to a free-standing building, which building
shall exclude all retail uses, except those allowed as accessory uses per the
Land Use table in this Chapter;
            ii.   Provide, as part of the building, a loading facility for the
use of ambulances, which facility shall not be used for other vehicles; and
            iii.   Provide an approved plan for vehicular ingress and egress,
said approval to take the form of a certificate signed by the Police Chief,
Fire Chief and Director of Community Development, certifying that the plan for
ingress and egress proposed by the user will not interfere with either highway
or abutting users’ traffic or increase the risk to persons or property.
         c.   Warehousing and distribution of goods, products and supplies,
conducted as an accessory use to a permitted office, warehousing or
distribution use within the zoning district shall be considered a Special Use.
The following conditions shall be required as a minimum for such Special Use to
be granted:
            i.   All storage shall be inside;
            ii.   Not more than forty percent (40%) of the floor area of the
building may be utilized for warehousing and distributions;
            iii.   Shipments of goods, products and supplies may be broken down
and repackaged
for warehousing and distribution purposes;
            iv.   All loading docks used for the warehousing and distribution
of goods, products and supplies shall be landscaped or otherwise screened in a
manner approved by the Plan Commission; and
            v.   No motor freight terminals or other prohibited uses shall be
permitted as a part of the Special Use.
         d.   Warehousing and light assembly and/or packaging, conducted as an
accessory use to a permitted office, warehousing or distribution use within the
zoning district shall be considered a Special Use. The following conditions
shall be required as a minimum for such Special Use to be granted:
            i.   Property must be located adjacent to property zoned as an I-
1 or I-2 Industrial District;
            ii.   Property may be located adjacent to property zoned as an A-1,
A-2 and A-3 Residential Zoning District;
            iii.   Property may not be located adjacent to property zoned as R-
1, R-2, R-3 or R-4 Residential Zoning Districts, except where separated by a
street or right-of-way of not less than sixty feet (60'); and
            iv.   All activities must be conducted solely within a building or
group of buildings and will not cause or result in:
               1.   A violation of the performance standards set forth this
Ordinance;
               2.   Hazard of fire or explosion or other physical hazard to any
person, building or vegetation;
               3.   Radiation or interference with radio or television
reception beyond the boundaries of the immediate site of the building in which
such use is conducted; and
               4.   Scientific testing of instruments which requires the flying
of aircraft in the vicinity in such manner as to constitute a public nuisance.
   7-3-F: Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District
ITC – Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District
ITC – Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District
Minimum Lot Area (acres)              4 acres
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line  100 ft.
(ft.)
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)     50 ft.
Minimum Required for each Side Yard   10 ft.
(ft.)
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)      15 ft.
Maximum Ground Coverage               50%
                                      Greater of twenty-five (25) stories or
Maximum Building Height (ft.)         three hundred and seventy-five (375')
                                      feet
Maximum Floor Area Ratio              0.50 for each level of all buildings1
1 For example, a single-story building may have a FAR of 0.50, a two-story
building a FAR of 1.00, a three-story building a FAR of 1.50, etc.
 
      1.   Purpose: The Innovation and Technology Center Zoning (ITC) District
has specific standards and expectations incorporating innovation, technology
and entrepreneurship. The intent of the district is to allow flexibility and
creativity in design, as well as diversification in the planning, location,
design and use of structures. The district serves as an engine for economic
growth and reinforces the Village’s role as an innovation and technology-based
employment center.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the ITC Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the ITC Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the ITC Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Prohibited Uses: Prohibited uses are those uses identified in the
Innovation and Technology Center Design Guidelines. Additionally, unless it is
an expressly Permitted, Conditional or Special Use, the use will be deemed
prohibited.
Figure 7.13: Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District Bulk Regulations
Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2162.png]
      6.   Use Regulations:
         a.   General Conditions:
            i.   All uses in the Innovation and Technology Center Zoning
District shall relate to operations and functions associated with innovation,
advanced technology and entrepreneurship.
            ii.   All uses shall meet the Industrial Zoning District
performance standards as set forth in this Code.
            iii.   All uses shall meet the Innovation and Technology Center
Design Guidelines, which guidelines by this reference are incorporated herein,
a copy of which is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk.
         b.   Prerequisites for Conditional Uses: Applications for Conditional
Uses shall be submitted to the Director of Community Development and will be
distributed to the Police, Fire and Public Works Departments along with a copy
to the Village Managers Office. The Departments shall review and consider
whether the proposed Conditional Use is consistent with the criteria set forth
in Subsection 7-3-F3 of this Code and with the following considerations:
            i.   Aesthetics in compliance with the Innovation and Technology
Center Design Guidelines;
            ii.   Parking, number and location of loading dock areas and drive
in doors in compliance with the Innovation and Technology Center Design
Guidelines;
            iii.   Traffic generation onsite and along Northwest Point
Boulevard;
            iv.   Compatibility with neighboring uses and overall uses within
the Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District;
            v.   Ingress and egress into the site; and
            vi.   Landscaping and screening requirements in compliance with the
Innovation and Technology Center Design Guidelines.
         c.   Based upon review by the various Departments, a recommendation
shall be made to the Mayor and Board of Trustees concerning the acceptance or
denial of the Conditional Use. Final approval for such Conditional Use shall be
made by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Said Conditional Use may supersede or
provide variations to provisions of this Code.
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for all Uses in the ITC Zoning District
         a.   Parking and Loading Requirements:
            i.   The location of parking facilities shall be deemed to comply
with Subsection 4-2-F2 of this Code so long as the closest parking space
servicing a building is within two hundred (200') feet of such building.
Further, no portion of parking facilities shall be separated by a public
street.
            ii.   Parking requirements shall be satisfied by:
               1.   Providing one parking stall for every one thousand (1,000')
square feet of building area, with the exception of data centers which can be
parked at a ratio no less than one parking stall for every three thousand
(3,000') square feet of building area; or
               2.   Demonstrating that the parking requirements of Subsection
ii-1 above shall be available on the subject property in the form of land
banking an equivalent area on the parcel for future use. If existing parking is
deemed inadequate by the Director of Community Development, the land banked
parking shall be constructed.
               3.   Parking requirements for hotels shall be as set forth in
Chapter 4 of this Code.
            iii.   Loading spaces:
               a)   Loading and service docks shall be permitted within the
Innovation and Technology Center Zoning District. Loading and service docks
shall be limited to no more than one (1) per ten thousand (10,000') square feet
of building space per parcel.
               b)   All buildings shall have at least one loading or service
dock area which is twelve (12') feet wide by sixty (60') feet long.
         b.   Signs:
            i.   A single monument sign is permitted on each parcel. Standards
for size and design are reflected in the Innovation and Technology Center
Design Guidelines.
            ii.   Wall signs shall be permitted, provided the same do not
exceed three (3) square feet for each lineal foot of building frontage or
extend above the facia or parapet line. Standards for size and design are
reflected in the Innovation and Technology Center Design Guidelines.
            iii.   Signs identifying the Innovation and Technology Center shall
be permitted to be located at the ingress and egress to said parcels located
along Arlington Heights Road and King Street or fronting Interstate 90 as
approved by the Director of Community Development. No such sign shall exceed
three hundred and fifty (350') square feet.
         c.   Fence, Screening and Landscaping Requirements and Restrictions:
            i.   Height and Location of Fences: No fence shall be erected in
excess of eight (8') feet or be located in the front yard or ahead of any
building except as permitted by Section 3-3-E.
            ii.   Prohibited Fences: Chain link, barbed wire, electrically
charged, cinder block and wooden fences are strictly prohibited.
            iii.   Screening:
               1.   Screening is required within any new development or
redevelopment. Screening shall be designed with a combination of elements
including low solid masonry or stone walls, precast walls, outcropping, berms
and landscaping;
               2.   Facilities and equipment located externally must be
enclosed and screened with landscaping to minimize views from adjoining
streets, buildings or open space;
               3.   The method of screening should be architecturally
integrated with the adjacent building in terms of materials, colors, shape and
proportion;
               4.   All loading docks, service docks and refuse areas must be
screened from public view; and
               5.   Screening shall comply with the Innovation and Technology
Center Design Guidelines.
            iv.   Landscaping:
               a)   Landscaping shall comply with Section 8-5 of the Municipal
Code;
               b)   Landscape plantings should complement the architectural
style of the buildings on said parcel. The landscaping of buildings should be
designed using simple forms and aesthetic combinations of plant material in
rich, vertical layers; and
               c)   All landscaped areas shall be irrigated.
         d.   Common Site Amenities: Site amenities such as ponds, fountains,
statuary, plazas and outdoor areas for gathering, walking paths and similar
attractions shall be incorporated into the development of all sites.
         e.   Building Design, Architectural Elements and Materials: All new
and renovated buildings shall comply with the Innovation and Technology Center
Design Guidelines.
§ 7-4 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   7-4-A. I-1 Restricted Industrial District
I-1 Restricted Industrial District
I-1 Restricted Industrial District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 15,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 60
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  10 or 501
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           15 or 501
Maximum Ground Coverage                    80%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              1002
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   0.8
1. When lot abuts residential district
2. Lower maximum height may apply. See Figure 7.15.
 
      1.   Purpose: The I-1 Restricted Industrial Zoning District provides for
a range of manufacturing, industrial and warehousing activities. While some
retail elements may be part of businesses, such activity is limited and only
for items produced on the premises. Development in the zoning district may be
nearby to residential or business uses, and are intended to be sited and
developed in a manner so as to have limited potential adverse impacts on non-
industrial uses.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the I-1 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the I-1 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the I-1 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the I-1 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the I-1 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7.1, the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.14: I-1 Restricted Industrial District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2164.png]
Figure 7.15: I-1 Zoning District Height Alternatives
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2166.png]
 
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in I-1 Zoning
Districts:
         a.   Retail uses, accessory to the primary use located on the
premises, subject to the following conditions:
            i.   Accessory retail use shall not occupy more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of the principal building or structure located on the
lot or parcel involved;
            ii.   No outside storage or sales area shall be allowed in relation
to said retail sales;
            iii.   No signage other than an identification sign not exceeding
ten (10') square feet, and otherwise in accordance with the Sign Ordinance of
the Village, is allowed in relation to said retail sales;
            iv.   A separate parking area for retail sales shall be designated
on the property. Such parking shall be located so as to minimize mixing of
customer access and parking, with that for trucks or other commercial vehicles;
            v.   The overall amount of parking provided shall consider said
retail use area as being in addition to the floor area of the primary use, and
provided in number as required by the business zoning classification for a
comparable retail use;
            vi.   Any special access requirements as are deemed necessary by
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of Community Development as not to
interfere with established or anticipated public street traffic to and from the
primary use shall be provided; and
            vii.   Such retail use shall be licensed in accordance with the
licensing provisions of the Elk Grove Village Code.
         b.   Business and Trade Schools, subject to the following conditions:
            i.   All on-site instruction and/or training shall be conducted
within completely enclosed buildings; and
            ii.   No dormitories or resident facilities shall be permitted.
         c.   Vehicle Services:
            i.   Vehicle Repair/Maintenance subject to the following
conditions:
               1.   All open storage areas for automotive vehicles waiting to
be serviced shall be located behind the principal structure and screened by an
eight foot (8') solid fence or wall. The fence or wall must be black in color
when facing a public street. The type of fence or wall shall be reviewed and
approved by the Zoning Administrator;
               2.   No vehicle shall be stored for more than thirty (30) days
and no vehicle shall be disassembled on the site except for the purpose of
repairing or replacement of damaged or unusable components thereof;
               3.   No vehicle or parts thereof shall be rented, leased or
auctioned from the site;
               4.   Vehicle sales are permitted subject to the conditions for
Vehicle Internet Sales;
               5.   All buildings shall meet Building and Life Safety Code
requirements related to auto repair facilities at all times;
               6.   All site, building and parking lot areas shall be
maintained in good repair at all times;
               7.   On-site inspections by the Village may be conducted to
secure compliance with these conditions; and
               8.   Site plans subject to Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-
G and confirmation through that process that the site can support said use
without adversely impacting adjacent and nearby properties.
            ii.   Vehicle Internet Sales subject to the following conditions:
               1.   Except for the arrival and departure of automobiles, all
activities shall occur completely within the enclosed building;
               2.   The use shall be limited to display of vehicles to
customers by appointment only and related office use; vehicle repair/
maintenance as an accessory use is permitted subject to the conditions for
vehicle repair/maintenance;
               3.   Vehicles on display must be in a “ready for sale”
condition;
               4.   No more than one such use shall be permitted in a multi-
tenant structure;
               5.   No outdoor advertising inviting the general public to the
showroom shall be permitted;
               6.   In granting a Conditional Use permit for internet-based
sales, the Village shall consider whether the building size is adequate for the
operation, including the number of vehicles anticipated in the showroom, and
whether sufficient parking exists for the number of employees and the
prospective customers;
               7.   That the business be in compliance with applicable
regulations of the Illinois Secretary of State’s Office with respect to
licensing, and obtain a state dealer license;
               8.   All buildings shall meet Building and Life Safety Code
requirements related to auto storage facilities at all times; and
               9.   All site, building and parking lot areas shall be
maintained in good repair at all times.
         d.   Equipment Sales, Rental or Maintenance: Site plans subject to
Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-G and confirmation through that process that
the site can support said use without adversely impacting adjacent and nearby
properties.
         e.   Microbrewery/Brew Pub, Microdistillery and Microwinery with
Tasting Rooms:
            i.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance for establishments with tasting rooms along with one parking
space per employee on largest shift plus one parking space per company vehicle.
            ii.   Outdoor dining and seating areas shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
               1.   Emergency exits;
               2.   Decorative fencing to restrict access; and
               3.   Trash and recycling receptacles.
            Outdoor seating areas are subject to the review and approval of the
Zoning Administrator. Additional considerations such as proximity to adjacent
properties, hours of operation, size of the area along with other factors must
be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
         f.   Elk Grove Technology Park Design Guidelines: Development on any
property located in the Elk Grove Technology Park, which includes all
properties within the boundary area shown in Figure 7.16 below, shall be
subject to the requirements of the Elk Grove Technology Park Design Guidelines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2168.png]
Figure 7.16: Elk Grove Technology Park
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in I-1 Zoning Districts:
In addition to meeting all standards for Special Uses specified in this
Ordinance, the following uses in the I-1 Zoning Districts shall meet the
following standards:
         a.   Retail Sale of Merchandise: Retail sale of merchandise wherein
the floor area of said retail use exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the entire
floor area of the principal building or structure and where said retail use is
in conjunction with wholesale uses, wholesale storage of merchandise or office
uses:
            i.   The retail use does not include an identification sign
exceeding ten (10) square feet, and is otherwise in accordance with the Sign
Ordinance of the Village;
            ii.   A parking area shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 4 of this Ordinance. In determining the applicable number
of parking stalls, the Village shall consider the nature of the products being
offered for sale as same relate to the requirements of said Chapter 4 of this
Ordinance, the ratio of floor area designated for retail and wholesale sales as
compared to floor area designated for storage or non-consumer access and such
other considerations as are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this
Ordinance;
            iii.   Such special access requirements as are deemed necessary by
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of Community Development so as not to
interfere with established and anticipated public street traffic to and from
the proposed site shall be provided; and
            iv.   The need for the retail sales in the area proposed and the
benefit to the Village, including projection of revenues, to be derived from
the granting of the Special Use permit shall be evidenced by the applicant. In
that regard, the Village may require copies of monthly, quarterly or annual
sales and use tax returns filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue as a
condition of the granting of the Special Use permit.
         b.   Veterinary Clinics:
            i.   There shall be no boarding of animals of any kind except for
those animals so ill that the personal attention of a doctor of veterinary
medicine is required, or those animals recovering from surgery; provided, that
such boarding facility permitted be situated in the clinic and not attached
thereto;
            ii.   All business must be conducted within a completely enclosed
building, and no outdoor kennel of any kind shall be permitted; and
            iii.   Incinerators, lime pits or other facilities for the
destruction of animal waste or corpses of any type shall not be permitted.
         c.   Indoor Dog Parks and Training Facilities:
            i.   Location:
               a)   All indoor dog parks and training facilities must be
located in stand-alone buildings with no other tenants or uses.
               b)   Buildings located in the I-1 and I- 2 Industrial Zoning
District must be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any
Residential Zoned District.
            ii.   Parking: Parking shall be provided at a rate of at least one
(1) parking stall for every employee on duty during the largest shift along
with parking spaces equal to one quarter (1/4) the capacity of the facility in
persons.
            iii.   Location of Outdoor Dog Areas: Outdoor dog areas must be
setback at least ten feet (10') from rear and side property lines and at least
sixty feet (60') from front property lines.
               1.   No outdoor training, boarding, entertainment, competition
or similar use areas are permitted.
            iv.   Screening: Outdoor dog runs/areas must be screened by an
eight foot (8') tall solid fence accented by additional landscaping.
            v.   Ancillary Services: Ancillary services to the indoor dog park
and training facility shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total
building square footage.
            vi.   Overnight Boarding:
               a)   Overnight boarding of dogs is limited to forty (40) dogs.
All boarding must take place indoors and animals shall be kept inside between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
               b)   Individual cages/kennels for dogs shall not be less than
one hundred (100') square feet in area per dog with an interior height of at
least eight feet (8'). The layout of the boarding area must be approved by the
Director of Community Development.
               c)   Unless customers are boarding multiple dogs from the same
household, dogs must have their own cage/kennel space.
            vii.   License: Provide a valid license from the State of Illinois
for boarding of dogs.
            viii.   An employee shall be on-site at all times when dogs are at
the facility.
            ix.   Dogs shall not be walked off-site.
            x.   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner by
the daily removal of waste and by the use of spray and disinfectants to prevent
the accumulation of flies, the spread of disease or offensive odor.
   7-4-B. I-2 General Industrial Zoning District
I-2 General Industrial District
I-2 General Industrial District
Minimum Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 20,000
Minimum Lot Width at Front Yard line (ft.) 100
Minimum Required Front Yard (ft.)          25
Minimum Required for each Side Yard (ft.)  10 or 501
Minimum Required Rear Yard (ft.)           15 or 501
Maximum Ground Coverage                    80%
Maximum Building Height (ft.)              6 stories or 1002
Maximum Floor Area Ratio                   2.0
1. When lot abuts residential district
2. Whichever is more restrictive
 
      1.   Purpose: The I-2 General Industrial Zoning District provides for a
wider range of manufacturing, industrial and warehousing activities, and
anticipates larger and potentially more intensive activity than the I-1 Zoning
District. While some retail elements may be part of businesses, such activity
is limited and only for items produced on the premises. Development in the
zoning district may be nearby to business uses and is intended to be sited and
developed in a manner so as to have limited potential adverse impacts on those
activities.
      2.   Permitted Uses: Permitted Uses in the I-2 Zoning District are listed
in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      3.   Conditional Uses: Conditional Uses in the I-2 Zoning District are
listed in the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      4.   Special Uses: Special Uses in the I-2 Zoning District are listed in
the Zoning District Use Table 7-2.
      5.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements in the I -2 Zoning
District are listed in Chapter 4 of this Ordinance.
      6.   Bulk Space and Yard Regulations: Bulk regulations in the I-2 Zoning
District including regulations regarding lot area, lot width, yard areas,
ground coverage and building height are listed in Table 7., the table on this
page and illustrated below.
Figure 7.17: I-2 General Industrial District Bulk Regulations Illustration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2170.png]
      7.   Supplemental Regulations for Conditional Uses in the I-2 Zoning
Districts:
         a.   Retail uses, accessory to the primary use located on the
premises, subject to the following conditions:
            i.   Accessory retail use shall not occupy more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of the primary building or structure located on the lot
or parcel involved;
            ii.   No outside storage or sales area shall be allowed in relation
to said retail sales;
            iii.   No signage other than an identification sign not exceeding
ten (10) square feet, and otherwise in accordance with the sign ordinance of
the Village, is allowed in relation to said retail sales;
            iv.   A separate parking area for retail sales shall be designated
on the property. Such parking shall be located so as to minimize mixing of
customer access and parking, with that for trucks or other commercial vehicles;
            v.   The overall amount of parking provided shall consider said
retail use area as being in addition to the floor area of the primary use, and
provided in number as required by the business zoning classification for a
comparable retail use;
            vi.   Any special access requirements as are deemed necessary by
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of Community Development so as not to
interfere with established or anticipated public street traffic to and from the
primary use shall be provided; and
            vii.   Such retail use shall be licensed in accordance with the
licensing provisions of the Elk Grove Village Code.
         b.   Business and Trade Schools, subject to the following conditions:
            i.   All on-site instruction and/or training shall be conducted
within completely enclosed buildings; and
            ii.   No dormitories or resident facilities shall be permitted.
         c.   Vehicle Services:
            i.   Vehicle Repair/Maintenance subject to the following
conditions:
               1.   All open storage areas for automotive vehicles waiting to
be serviced shall be located behind the principal structure and screened by an
eight foot (8') solid fence or wall. The fence or wall must be black in color
when facing a public street. The type of fence or wall shall be reviewed and
approved by the Zoning Administrator;
               2.   No vehicle shall be stored for more than thirty (30) days
and no vehicle shall be disassembled on the site except for the purpose of
repairing or replacement of damaged or unusable components thereof;
               3.   No vehicle or parts thereof shall be rented, leased or
auctioned from the site;
               4.   Vehicle sales are permitted subject to the conditions for
Vehicle Internet Sales;
               5.   All buildings shall meet Building and Life Safety Code
requirements related to auto repair facilities at all times;
               6.   All site, building and parking lot areas shall be
maintained in good repair at all times;
               7.   On-site inspections by the Village may be conducted to
secure compliance with these conditions; and
               8.   Site plans subject to Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-
G and confirmation through that process that the site can support said use
without adversely impacting adjacent and nearby properties.
            ii.   Vehicle Internet Sales subject to the following conditions:
               1.   Except for the arrival and departure of automobiles, all
activities shall occur completely within the enclosed building;
               2.   The use shall be limited to display of vehicles to
customers by appointment only and related office use; vehicle repair/
maintenance as an accessory use is permitted subject to the conditions for
vehicle repair/maintenance;
               3.   Vehicles on display must be in a “ready for sale”
condition;
               4.   No more than one such use shall be permitted in a multi-
tenant structure;
               5.   No outdoor advertising inviting the general public to the
showroom shall be permitted.
               6.   In granting a Conditional Use permit for internet-based
sales, the Village shall consider whether the building size is adequate for the
operation, including the number of vehicles anticipated in the showroom, and
whether sufficient parking exists for the number of employees and the
prospective customers;
               7.   That the business be in compliance with applicable
regulations of the Illinois Secretary of State’s Office with respect to
licensing, and obtain a state dealer license;
               8.   All buildings shall meet Building and Life Safety Code
requirements related to auto storage facilities at all times; and
               9.   All site, building and parking lot areas shall be
maintained in good repair at all times.
         d.   Equipment Sales, Rental or Maintenance: Site plans subject to
Site Plan Review per Section 8-3-G and confirmation through that process that
the site can support said use without adversely impacting adjacent and nearby
properties.
         e.   Microbrewery/Brew Pub, Microdistillery and Microwinery with
Tasting Rooms:
            i.   Parking requirements shall be in accordance with Chapter 4 of
this Ordinance for establishments with tasting rooms along with one parking
space per employee on largest shift plus one parking space per company vehicle.
            ii.   Outdoor dining and seating areas shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
               1.   Emergency exits;
               2.   Decorative fencing to restrict access; and
               3.   Trash and recycling receptacles.
            Outdoor seating areas are subject to the review and approval of the
Zoning Administrator. Additional considerations such as proximity to adjacent
properties, hours of operation, size of the area along with other factors must
be reviewed on a case-by case basis.
      8.   Supplemental Regulations for Special Uses in I-2 Zoning Districts:
In addition to meeting all standards for Special Uses specified in this
Ordinance, the following uses in the I-2 Zoning Districts shall meet the
following standards:
         a.   Retail Sale of Merchandise: Retail sale of merchandise wherein
the floor area of said retail use exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the entire
floor area of the primary building or structure and where said retail use is in
conjunction with wholesale uses, wholesale storage of merchandise or office
uses:
            i.   The retail use does not include an identification sign
exceeding ten (10') square feet, and is otherwise in accordance with the Sign
Ordinance of the Village;
            ii.   A parking area shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 4 of this Ordinance. In determining the applicable number
of parking stalls, the Village shall consider the nature of the products being
offered for sale as same relate to the requirements of said Chapter 4 of this
Ordinance, the ratio of floor area designated for retail and wholesale sales as
compared to floor area designated for storage or non-consumer access and such
other considerations as are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this
Ordinance;
            iii.   Such special access requirements as are deemed necessary by
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Director of Community Development so as not to
interfere with established and anticipated public street traffic to and from
the proposed site shall be provided; and
            iv.   The need for the retail sales in the area and the benefit to
the Village, including projection of revenues, to be derived from the granting
of the Special Use permit shall be evidenced by the applicant. In that regard,
the Village may require copies of monthly, quarterly or annual sales and use
tax returns filed with the Illinois Department of Revenue as a condition of the
granting of the Special Use permit.
         b.   Petroleum Storage Facilities:
            i.   Location: All Petroleum Storage Facilities must be located in
the following areas:
               1.   Fronting the west side of Elmhurst Road north of Devon and
south of Estes Avenue;
               2.   Any area east of Elmhurst Road between Devon Avenue on the
south and I-90 on the north.
            ii.   Number of Structures: Multiple structures on a zoned lot
shall be permitted. The number and location shall be set forth on the site plan
as approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
            iii.   Height: The height of structures shall not exceed sixty-five
feet (65').
            iv.   Additional Special Conditions: Such additional special
conditions as designated by the Plan Commission based upon concerns and input
from the Department of Community Development, Fire Department, Police
Department and Department of Public Works.
         c.   Asphaltic Concrete Plants:
            i.   Location: All asphaltic concrete plants must be located in the
following areas:
               1.   Fronting the west side of Elmhurst Road north of Devon
Avenue and south of Estes Avenue;
               2.   Any area east of Elmhurst Road between Devon Avenue on the
south and I-90 on the north.
            ii.   Number of Structures: Multiple structures on a zoned lot
shall be permitted; the number and location shall be as set forth on the site
plan as approved by the Plan Commission.
            iii.   Height: The height of structures shall not exceed eighty-
five feet (85').
            iv.   Parking: Parking of vehicles shall be permitted within the
twenty-five foot (25') required front yard provided said parking is located
behind approved screened fencing.
            v.   Location of Production and Recycling Activity: Production and
recycling activities shall be permitted in areas other than within wholly
enclosed buildings.
            vi.   Location of Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage of materials
shall be permitted within the twenty-five foot (25') required front yard,
provided said storage is located behind approved screened fencing.
         d.   Veterinary Clinics:
            i.   There shall be no boarding of animals of any kind except for
those animals so ill that the personal attention of a doctor of veterinary
medicine is required, or those animals recovering from surgery; provided, that
such boarding facility permitted be situated in the clinic and not attached
thereto;
            ii.   All business must be conducted within a completely enclosed
building, and no
outdoor kennel of any kind shall be permitted; and
            iii.   Incinerators, lime pits or other facilities for the
destruction of animal waste or corpses of any type shall not be permitted.
         e.   Indoor Dog Parks and Training Facilities:
            i.   Location:
               1.   All indoor dog parks and training facilities must be
located in stand-alone buildings with no other tenants or uses.
               2.   Buildings located in the I-1 and I- 2 Industrial Zoning
District must be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any
Residential Zoned District.
            ii.   Parking: Parking shall be provided at a rate of at least one
(1) parking stall for every employee on duty during the largest shift along
with parking spaces equal to one quarter (1/4) the capacity of the facility in
persons.
            iii.   Location of Outdoor Dog Areas: Outdoor dog areas must be
setback at least ten feet (10') from rear and side property lines and at least
sixty feet (60') from front property lines.
               a)   No outdoor training, boarding, entertainment, competition
or similar use areas are permitted.
            iv.   Screening: Outdoor dog runs/areas must be screened by an
eight foot (8') tall solid fence accented by additional landscaping.
            v.   Ancillary Services: Ancillary services to the indoor dog park
and training facility shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total
building square footage.
            vi.   Overnight Boarding:
               a)   Overnight boarding of dogs is limited to forty (40) dogs.
All boarding must take place indoors and animals shall be kept inside between
the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
               b)   Individual cages/kennels for dogs shall not be less than
one hundred (100') square feet in area per dog with an interior height of at
least eight feet (8'). The layout of the boarding area must be approved by the
Director of Community Development.
               c)   Unless customers are boarding multiple dogs from the same
household, dogs must have their own cage/kennel space.
            vii.   License: Provide a valid license from the State of Illinois
for boarding of dogs.
            viii.   An employee shall be onsite at all times when dogs are at
the facility.
            ix.   Dogs shall not be walked off-site.
            x.   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner by
the daily removal of waste and by the use of spray and disinfectants to prevent
the accumulation of flies, the spread of disease or offensive odor.
Table 7-2: Land Use Table
 R- R- R- R-   A- A- A- B-       B-      B-         B-                    I-         I-
 1  2  3  4    1  2  3  1        2       3          5 Town ITC O-T Office 1          2
 S/ S/ S/ Res/ M/ M/ M/ Shopping General Automotive Center     Transition Restricted General
 F  F  F  PD   F  F  F
Table 7-2: Land Use Table
                R- R- R- R-   A- A- A- B-       B-      B-         B-                    I-         I-
                1  2  3  4    1  2  3  1        2       3          5 Town ITC O-T Office 1          2
                S/ S/ S/ Res/ M/ M/ M/ Shopping General Automotive Center     Transition Restricted General
                F  F  F  PD   F  F  F
Residential Uses
Community
Residences,     C  C  C  C    S  S  S
Family
Community
Residences,
Family (w/in
660 feet of     S  S  S  S    S  S  S
another
Community
Residence)
Community
Residences,     C  C  C  C    S  S  S
Group
Community
Residences,
Group (w/in 660 S  S  S  S    S  S  S
feet of another
Community
Residence)
Daycare Home    P  P  P  P    P  P  P
Residential
Mixed-Use PD             S
(R-4)
Mobile Home                      S
Park
Multi-Family                  S  C/ P
Dwellings                        S
Single-Family
Detached        P  P  P  P
Dwellings
Single-Family
Attached                 S    C  P  P
Dwellings
Single-Family
Development (R-       S
3)
Senior
Independent                      S                                            S
Living
Skilled Care             S    S  S                                            S
Housing
Public, Cultural, Recreation and Other Institutional Uses
Ambulance                                               P                                P          P
Services
Ambulatory
Surgical        S  S  S  S    S  S  S                                         S
Treatment
Centers
Charitable,
Organizational
and Business                           P        P       P                     P
Association
(Offices)
Government
Buildings and   S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S          S          S          S
Facilities
Hospital        S                                                             S
Lodges and                             S        S                                        S          S
Meeting Halls
Museums,
Community                              S        S       S          S          S
Theaters and
Art Galleries
Outdoor
Recreation or                          S        S       S
Amusement
Preschool                              S        S       S                     S
Facilities
Public
Recreational    S  S  S  S    S  S  S
Uses
Religious       S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S      S   S          S          S
Institutions
Schools, Public S  S  S  S    S  S  S
or Private
Schools,
Business or                                     C                             C          C          C
Trade
Undertaking
Establishments                                          S
(Funeral Home)
Business Uses
Automobile and/                                         S
or Truck Rental
Automobile and/
or Truck Sales                                          S                                S          S
(new and used)
Bakery/Coffee                          P        P       P          P
Shop
Business                               P        P       P          P      P
Accelerator
Business                               P        P       P          P      P   P
Services
Business
Services and                                                              P
Administrative
Offices
Car Wash                                                P
Co-Working                                                                P
Center
Currency                                                P
Exchange
Daycare Centers                        S        S       S                     S          S          S
Domestic Pet                           S        S       S                                S          S
Services
Equipment
Sales, Rental                                           S                                C          C
or Maintenance
Financial
Institution                            S        S       S          S
(with or w/
o Drive-Thru)
Fueling                                                 P
Stations
Furniture and
Home                                   P        P       P          P
Furnishings
Garden Stores                          P        P       P          P
Hotel                                                                     S              S          S
Hotel, Extended                                                                          S
Stay
Indoor Retail                          P        P       P          P                     S          S
Sales of Goods
Indoor Athletic
Training and                           P        P       P          P                     S          S
Recreation
Facilities
Indoor Places
of                                     P        P       P          P      S
Entertainment
and Amusement
Indoor Dog
Parks and                                                                                S          S
Training
Facilities
Laboratory                                                                               P          P
Medical and                            P        P       P          P          P          S          S
Dental Clinics
Microbrewery
with Tasting                           C        C       C          P      S              C          C
Room/Brew Pub
Microdistillery
with Tasting                           C        C       C          P      S              C          C
Room
Microwinery
with Tasting                           C        C       C          P      S              C          C
Room
Mobile home and
Trailer Sales                                           S
and Rental
Offices,
Professional                           P        P       P          P      P   P          P          P
and Business
Personal                               P        P       P          P
Services
Professional                                                              P
Offices
Restaurants                            P        P       P          P      P              S          S
Retail Use
(accessory to
Manufacturing                                                                            C          C
uses up to 50%
of Floor Area)
Retail Use
(accessory to
Manufacturing                                                                            S          S
uses over 50%
of Floor Area)
Surgery with                                                              S
Outpatient Care
Truck Repair/                                           C                                C          C
Maintenance
Vehicle                                                 P                                C          C
Internet Sales
Vehicle Repair/                                         C                                C          C
Maintenance
Veterinary                             S        S                                        S          S
Clinics
Industrial
Antenna,
Satellite Dish,
Transmission                                                                             S          S
Structures,
Communication
Structures
Asphalt/                                                                                            S
Concrete Plants
Cell Towers     S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S      S   S          S          S
Clean                                                                     P              P          P
Manufacturing
Data Center                                                               P              P          P
Food Processing                                                                                     S
Foundries,                                                                                          S
Nonferris
Light Assembly                                                                S          P          P
Manufacturing/
Storage of
Weapons,                                                                                 S          S
Firearms and
Ammunition
Manufacturing,                                                                                      S
Toxic Chemicals
Manufacturing,                                                                           P          P
General
Manufacturing,                                  S       S                                P          P
Limited
Medical and                                                               C              P          P
Development
Microbrewery                                                                             P          P
Microdistillery                                                                          P          P
Microwinery                                                                              P          P
Mini-warehouse                                                                           S          S
Paper and Pulp                                                                                      S
Processing
Petroleum
Storage                                                                                             S
Facilities
Precision                                                                 C              P          P
Engineering
Recycling                                                                                S          S
Facility
Research                                                                  C              P          P
Laboratories
Smelting and
Refining of                                                                                         S
Precious Metals
Technology
Based                                                                     C
Operations
Truck Terminals                                                                          S          S
Warehousing                            S        S       S                     S          P          P
Wholesale Sales                                                                          P          P
Establishment
Warehousing,
distribution
and Light
Assembly of
goods, products
and supplies as
an accessory
Use to a
Permitted Use                                                             S
within the
District, when
such accessory
Use exceeds
seventy-five
(75%) percent
of the Floor
Area of the
Building
Miscellaneous
Parking Lots,                                                             S
Public
Planned         S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S      S   S          S          S
Development
Public Utility  S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S      S   S          S          S
Facilities
Sexually
Oriented                                        C       C
Businesses
US Postal
Service Branch                         P        P       P          P          P          P          P
Office
Utilities       S  S  S  S    S  S  S  S        S       S          S      S   S          S          S
Accessory Uses
Beauty/Barber   P                                                         P   P
Shops
Convention and
Meeting
Facilities as
an Accessory
Use to
Restaurant,
Hotel or Office                                                           P   P
Buildings and
not exceeding
twenty percent
(20%) of the
Gross Floor
Area of such
use
Drive-Thru
Accessory to                                    S       S          S
Permitted Uses
Drugstores      P                                                         P
Gift Shops      P                                                         P
Heliports and
Public
Transportation
Facilities                                                                S
exclusive of
service and
maintenance
facilities
Helistop        P                                                         S
Home            C  C  C  C    C  C  C
Occupations
Outdoor Dining
associated with                        C        C       C          C      C
a permitted
restaurant
Outdoor Sales                          C        C       C
Outdoor Storage                                                                          C          C
Restaurants
(without drive-                                                           P
thru)
 
 
CHAPTER 8: ADMINISTRATION AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
Section
   
8-1   Organization of Ordinance Administration
   
8-2   Zoning Administrator and Appointed Bodies
   
8-3   Zoning Entitlement Procedures
   
8-4   Fees/Penalties
§ 8-1 ORGANIZATION OF ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION.
   8-1-A. This Zoning Ordinance is administered by the following, as identified
in this Chapter and elsewhere in the Village Code:
      1.   Zoning Administrator;
      2.   Zoning Board of Appeals;
      3.   Plan Commission;
      4.   Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   8-1-B. The following zoning processes administered by the Village are
outlined in this Chapter:
      1.   Notice of Hearings;
      2.   Appeals;
      3.   Variations;
      4.   Amendments;
      5.   Special Uses;
      6.   Development Approval in the A-3 Zoning District;
      7.   Zoning Certificates;
      8.   Site Plan Review;
      9.   Fees.
§ 8-2 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AND APPOINTED BODIES.
   8-2-A. The Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Zoning Administrator and Authority: The Zoning Administrator or
their designee is charged to administer and enforce this Ordinance. The Village
of Elk Grove Village Director of Community Development is designated as the
Village’s Zoning Administrator and authorized to:
         a.   Issue all zoning certificates, certificates of occupancy and
permits required per this Ordinance and make and maintain records thereof;
         b.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to
determine compliance with this Ordinance, and notify in writing the person
responsible for any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it;
         c.   Inventory and as necessary order the discontinuance of non-
conforming or illegal use of land, buildings or structures; the removal of non-
conforming or illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, or
structural changes, or shall take any other action authorized by Illinois law
or by this Ordinance to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its
provisions;
         d.   Adopt and issue rules and procedures needed to effectively
administer and enforce this Ordinance;
         e.   Maintain permanent and current records of this Ordinance,
including, but not limited to all maps, amendments, Special Use permits,
Planned Developments, variations, appeals, applications and records of hearings
and decisions;
         f.   Advise all persons seeking zoning information relating to the
official plans of the Village;
         g.   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to
all matters arising out of this Ordinance;
         h.   Provide interpretations regarding the meaning and applicability
of regulations in this Ordinance and maintain a record of those
interpretations;
         i.   Receive, file and forward to the Village Manager and either the
Zoning Board of Appeals or Plan Commission as applicable, all applications for
matters pertinent to this Ordinance. As needed the Zoning Administrator shall
provide facts and information needed by these bodies to make findings and act
on matters before them;
         j.   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this Ordinance and make recommendations as such study requires;
         k.   Decide or make recommendations on all matters under Illinois
State law or this Ordinance upon which the Zoning Administrator is required to
act; and
         l.   Authorize removal and replacement of non-conforming fences,
provided the newly installed fence does not increase the extent of any non-
conforming condition.
   8-2-B. Zoning Board of Appeals:
   Provisions governing the establishment and membership of the Zoning Board of
Appeals are contained in Chapter 3 – Board of Zoning Appeals of Title 2 –
Boards and Commissions of the Village Code. The word “Board”, when used in this
Section shall be construed to mean the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA).
      1.   Membership:
         a.   The Board shall consist of nine (9) members appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the Board of Trustees, and who shall be residents of
the Village. The members shall serve for a term as set forth in the Village
Code. One of the members of said Board shall be designated by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees as Chair thereof and shall hold their office as Chair until
their successor is appointed. Such Chair, or in their absence, the Acting
Chair, may administer oaths of witnesses.
         b.   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any member of the Board
for cause. Any member so removed shall have the right to a hearing before the
Mayor and Board of Trustees with respect to the removal, upon a written
request. Vacancies upon said Board shall be filled for the unexpired term of
the member whose place has become vacant, in the manner provided in the Village
Code for the appointment of such member.
      2.   Authority: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following
duties and powers:
         a.   Hear and consider requests for variations, not otherwise under
the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission or reserved to the administrative
authority of the Zoning Administrator, to this Ordinance and make
recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on such matters;
         b.   Hear and consider appeals to determinations of the Zoning
Administrator and recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees the affirmation
or reversal of decision on such matters; and
         c.   Consider and report back regarding interpretations of this
Ordinance or other zoning related matters on which the Mayor and Board of
Trustees may request input.
      3.   Procedures:
         a.   Meetings: All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
held at the call of the Chair and properly noticed. All hearings conducted
shall be open to the public.
            i.   Minutes and Records: The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the
minutes of each case of a requested variation and the reasons for recommending
or denying such variation shall be specified. Determinations and reasons for
findings of other actions taken by the Board also shall be included in the
minutes of each matter. Actions taken by the Board shall be filed immediately
in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
            ii.   Voting: A majority of those members in attendance at the
Board meeting are required to affirmatively recommend a matter to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees, and in all cases, the concurring vote of at least four (4)
members shall be required for such recommendation.
            iii.   Rules of Procedure: The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure not in conflict with ordinances of the Village or with the Illinois
statutes in such case made and provided and may select or appoint such officers
as it deems necessary.
      4.   Fees: All fees for petitions to the ZBA shall be as determined by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   8-2-C. Plan Commission:
   Provisions governing the establishment and membership of the Plan Commission
are contained in Chapter 2 – Plan Commission of Title 2 – Boards and
Commissions of the Village Code.
      1.   Membership: The Plan Commission shall consist of nine (9) members
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Board of Trustees, and who
shall be residents of the Village. The members shall serve for a term as set
forth in the Village Code. One of the members of said Plan Commission shall be
designated by the Mayor and Board of Trustees as Chair thereof and shall hold
their office as Chair until their successor is appointed. Such Chair, or in
their absence, the Acting Chair, may administer oaths of witnesses.
      2.   Authority: The Plan Commission shall have the following duties and
powers:
         a.   Hear and consider requests for text or map amendments to this
Ordinance and make recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on such
matters;
         b.   Hear and consider requests for Special Uses under this Ordinance
and make recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on such matters;
         c.   Hear and consider requests for Planned Developments under this
Ordinance and make recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on such
matters;
         d.   Hear and consider requests related to the subdivision of land and
make recommendations to the Mayor and Board of Trustees on such matters;
         e.   Hear and consider other requests it is required to act upon under
this Ordinance;
         f.   Prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees a
Comprehensive Plan for the present and future development of the Village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half (1.5) miles
beyond the corporate limits of the Village and not included in any other
municipality. Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or
functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the Comprehensive Plan,
or part thereof, of the Village. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such
part thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees;
         g.   To designate land suitable for annexation to the Village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
         h.   To recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees from time to time
such changes in the Comprehensive Plan, or any part thereof, as may be deemed
necessary;
         i.   To prepare and recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees, from
time to time, plans, actions and/or recommendations for specific improvements
in pursuance of the Comprehensive Plan;
         j.   To undertake such actions as directed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees in matters related land use, zoning and the health, safety and welfare
of the community;
         k.   To hear requests for relief from requirements of this Ordinance
in conjunction with any matter before them; and
         l.   To make recommendations to grant relief on variation requests
otherwise reserved for the Zoning Board of Appeals that are included as relief
under this Chapter on matters where the Plan Commission has original
jurisdiction under this Subsection 8-2-C2.
      3.   Procedures:
         a.   Meetings: All meetings of the Plan Commission shall be held at
the call of the Chair and properly noticed. All hearings conducted shall be
open to the public.
            i.   Minutes and Records: The Plan Commission shall keep minutes of
its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of
its hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case taken by the Plan Commission. Actions taken by the
Plan Commission shall be filed immediately in the Office of the Village Clerk
and shall be a public record.
            ii.   Voting: A majority of those members in attendance at the Plan
Commission meeting are required to affirmatively recommend a matter to the
Mayor and Board of Trustees, and in all cases, the concurring vote of at least
four (4) members shall be required for such recommendation.
            iii.   Rules of Procedure: The Plan Commission shall adopt its own
rules of procedure not in conflict with ordinances of the Village or with the
Illinois statutes in such case made and provided and may select or appoint such
officers as it deems necessary.
      4.   Fees: All fees for petitions to the Plan Commission shall be as
determined by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   8-2-D. Board of Trustees:
      1.   Board of Trustees Authority and Procedure. Except in the case of any
matter reserved to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Zoning Board of Appeals or
Plan Commission, the Board of Trustees has reserved for itself final decision-
making authority, by ordinance duly adopted, for any matter the Board of
Trustees reserves original jurisdiction to itself, pursuant to its home rule
powers, or recommended to it by the Zoning Board of Appeals and Plan Commission
under the following Subsections of this Code:
         a.   Adoption of or amendment to the Comprehensive Plan or Official
Map;
         b.   Appeals under Subsection 8-3-B of this Code;
         c.   Variations under Subsection 8-3-C of this Code;
         d.   Amendments under Subsection 8-3-D of this Code;
         e.   Special use permits under Subsection 8-3-E of this Code;
         f.   Planned Developments under Chapter 5 of this Code; and
         i.   Any other matter under this Code determined, from time to time,
to be in the exclusive legislative discretion of the Board of Trustees.
      2.   Meeting and Procedures.
         a.   All final decisions of the Board of Trustees under this Code will
be made in a regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees conducted
pursuant to the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., as amended.
         b.   Necessary Vote: The concurring vote of at least a majority of the
currently elected trustees will be necessary to adopt any ordinance making a
final decision approving any matter under their review within this Code. Any
lesser vote on any such motion, even if a majority of those voting, will be
considered a final decision to recommend denial of such matter.
§ 8-3 ZONING ENTITLEMENT PROCEDURES.
   8-3-A. Hearing Notice and Procedures:
      1.   Public Hearing Notice Requirements: The following provisions shall
apply to public hearings required by this Ordinance in addition to any other
specific provisions set forth in the Ordinance:
         a.   When the provisions of this Ordinance require a public hearing,
the Village shall, upon receipt of a properly completed application, petition
or notice, fix a reasonable time and place for such hearing or meeting. Except
as otherwise set forth herein, such hearing or meeting shall be commenced no
later than sixty (60) days following the submission of a fully complete subject
application, or petition, unless the hearing or meeting agenda of the Plan
Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals is completely committed during that time.
An application shall be considered fully complete only when all materials
identified in this Ordinance, other relevant Village documents and other
pertinent data indicated as necessary by the Zoning Administrator have been
provided to the Village. An application shall be considered compete only if the
submitted material is deemed by the Zoning Administrator as sufficiently
thorough to provide the information needed by the Village to support making an
informed and accurate determination on the requested matter.
         b.   The Plan Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals public hearing
notice shall contain a description of the subject matter to be heard or
considered at the hearing; a description of the requested action; the address
or particular location of the subject development; the name and address of the
applicant; the name and address of legal property owner if different from other
information provided; and the time, place and date of the hearing. The notice
shall also contain a reference to the particular sections of this Ordinance
involved.
         c.   The Village Clerk shall give notice of the public hearing by mail
to the owners of all properties within three hundred feet (300'), excluding
road right-of-way, of the property which is the subject of the application.
Such notice shall be postmarked not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than
thirty (30) days in advance of the hearing and shall be sent by first class US
Mail. Supplemental or additional notices may be required by the Zoning
Administrator. Proof of mailing shall be in the form of an affidavit, in format
approved by the Village’s Attorney and shall be sufficient evidence of notice.
         d.   The Village shall publish notice of the public hearing at least
once, not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
date for the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village.
         e.   The Village shall cause to be placed on the specific property of
the public hearing a sign containing information regarding the public hearing.
The sign shall be placed on the property a minimum of ten (10) days prior to
the public hearing and shall not be removed until after completion of said
hearing.
      2.   Public Hearing Procedures: The following provisions shall apply to
public hearings required by this Ordinance, in addition to any other specific
provisions set forth in the Ordinance or by procedures established by the
hearing body:
         a.   All hearings shall be open to the public;
         b.   All testimony shall be given under oath;
         c.   Any interested person may appear and testify at a public hearing,
either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney, and may submit
documentary evidence; provided, however, that the Plan Commission or Zoning
Board of Appeals may exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious
evidence;
         d.   The Plan Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals shall prepare and
apply their own meeting procedures to further address processes related to
testimony, continuation of the hearing and the order of testimony provided at
hearings; and
         e.   A record shall be prepared of each public hearing for
presentation to the Mayor and Board of Trustees and include: all notices,
minutes or other comparable form or record, items submitted by applicants and
those providing testimony, recommendation of the hearing body, staff reports
and exhibits provided as part of the hearing.
   8-3-B. Appeals:
      1.   Authority: Appeals to determinations of the Zoning Administrator
shall be heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals in a manner described in this
Section.
      2.   Purpose: This appeal process is provided to mitigate against
arbitrary or erroneous applications of this Ordinance by the Zoning
Administrator and to avoid the need for legal action in resolving such actions.
However, it is not meant to undermine the standards or intent of this Ordinance
and the Zoning Board of Appeals and Mayor and Board of Trustees will give
proper deference to the determination of the Zoning Administrator and those
charged with applying this Ordinance, and to the spirit and intent of this
Ordinance.
      3.   Parties Entitled to Appeal: An appeal may be taken to the Zoning
Board of Appeals by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved or by a decision
of the Zoning Administrator relative to this Ordinance.
      4.   Procedures: An appeal shall be filed, by application in a form
defined by the Village Attorney, within thirty (30) days of formal written
notice of a determination by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall provide to the Zoning Board of Appeals all materials constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken:
         a.   An appeal shall stall all proceedings in furtherance of an action
appealed from;
         b.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a hearing regarding the
appeal at an established meeting or other date it may set and give written
notice of no less than fifteen (15) days to the interested parties;
         c.   Within fifteen (15) days after the hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall render a recommendation on the appeal to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, which shall make the final decision on the appeal; and
         d.   Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in
person, in writing or by duly authorized agent.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2176.png]
      5.   Decisions:
         a.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall recommend to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees the reversal or affirmation, wholly or partly, or shall
recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees the modification or amendment of
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the extent
and in the manner that the Zoning Board of Appeals recommends to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees to be fitting and proper in the premises.
         b.   A majority of those members in attendance at the Zoning Board of
Appeals meeting and in all cases the concurring vote of at least four (4)
members shall be required to recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees
reversal of any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator or recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees to decide in
favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this Ordinance
to render a decision.
      6.   Fees: Any fees for petitions to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
as determined by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      7.   Materials to be Submitted: Every application submitted for an appeal
shall include the following information:
         a.   The owner’s name, address, signed consent and proof of ownership;
         b.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the owner,
and their interest in the subject property;
         c.   The names and contact information of any professional consultants
advising the applicant with respect to the application;
         d.   The common address of the subject property;
         e.   A description and/or graphic describing the proposal for which
the appeal is being sought, and of the existing zoning classification, use and
development of the subject property;
         f.   The ordinance section and determination from which an appeal is
sought;
         g.   A narrative of the specific situation giving rise to the original
determination and the appeal; and
         h.   A statement of the applicant’s position as to alleged errors in
the order, decision, determination or failure to act being appealed and as to
why the relief sought is justified.
   8-3-C. Variations:
      1.   Authority: The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to grant variations, by ordinance, based on the standards outlined in this
Section and upon receiving a recommendation from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      2.   Purpose: When a property owner shows that a strict application of
the terms of this Ordinance relating to use, construction or alteration of
buildings or structures or to the use of land imposes upon them practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board of Appeals may
recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees that such variations of the strict
application of the terms of this Ordinance as are in harmony with its general
purposes and intent when the Zoning Board of Appeals is satisfied, under the
evidence heard before it, that such variation, if granted by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees, will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant but
is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as
to warrant a variation. Variations granted shall constitute the minimum relief
necessary to relieve the particular hardship. Variations shall not be granted
as temporary measures or to permit a use of land not authorized in the Zoning
District.
      3.   Variations to be Considered: Variations may be granted to an owner,
or person with a contractual interest in a property who also has authorization
of the owner, in the following instances:
         a.   To allow relief from any elements of this Ordinance related to
bulk standards set forth in Chapter 7 of this Ordinance, and summarized in
Table 7.1, including: structure height, structure setback, floor area ratio,
lot area, lot width and ground coverage;
         b.   Fences;
         c.   Parking and loading standards outlined in Chapter 4 of this
Ordinance;
         d.   To permit the reconstruction of a non-conforming building which
has been destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of
its value by fire, act of God or the public enemy where the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall find in addition to the standards for variation below, some
compelling public necessity requiring a continuation of the non-conforming use;
and
         e.   To interpret the provisions of this Ordinance where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
Zoning Map.
      4.   Procedures:
         a.   Applications for variations shall be filed through procedures
determined by the Village and as defined in this Ordinance. Application forms
shall be provided in forms approved by the Village Attorney.
         b.   Public Hearing: A public hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be set, noticed and conducted in keeping with the meeting and
notice provisions of this Chapter.
         c.   Action by the Zoning Board of Appeals: Within thirty-five (35)
days of the close of the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
provide to the Mayor and Board of Trustees its recommendation to approve,
approve with conditions or deny the variation application. Failure to do so
within thirty-five (35) days, or longer period if agreed to by the applicant,
shall be deemed a recommendation for denial of the variation.
         d.   Action by the Mayor and Board of Trustees: Following receipt of a
recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Mayor and Board of Trustees
will either deny the application or, by ordinance, approve the application or
approve the application with modifications or conditions, or remand the
application back to the Zoning Board of Appeals for additional consideration.
         e.   If the application for variation is denied, similar application
for relief may not be brought before the Village for a period of one year.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2178.png]
      5.   Standards for Variations: The Village may consider granting a
variation where, by reason of an exceptional situation, surroundings or
condition of a specific piece of property the strict application of any
provision of this Ordinance would result in exceptional practical difficulties
or particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from an inconvenience.
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit to the Mayor and Board of Trustees a
recommendation and findings of fact for each variation it hears based on the
following considerations:
         a.   Unique Physical Condition: The presence of unique physical
conditions related to the lot, structure and/or planned use that create a
hardship or practical difficulty for the applicant to meet the established
requirements of this Ordinance. The applicant must present evidence how such
unique hardship or practical difficulty is more impactful to meeting the
requirements of this Ordinance than a mere inconvenience;
         b.   Impact: Granting a variation will not substantially impact use
and enjoyment of adjacent or nearby properties by impairing an adequate supply
of light and air, increasing the risk from fire or other public safety hazard,
diminish property values, etc.;
         c.   Not Self-Imposed: The conditions creating the hardship or
practical difficulty are a result of application of this Ordinance, and not
self-imposed, having been created by the applicant or by another on behalf of
the applicant;
         d.   Use of Property: Use of the property possible under the standards
of this Ordinance, without receiving the requested variation, would deprive the
owner of the subject property of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners
of other lots subject to the same provisions. This standard is distinguished
from the understanding that application of zoning standards may create somewhat
increased development costs; which do not constitute, in and of themselves, a
cause to grant a hardship;
         e.   Community Character: Granting a variation will not impair the
public health, safety, morals, comfort and welfare of the people, nor shall the
essential character or trend of development in the area be disrupted by
granting the requested variation. This includes notable deviations to a
surround area of changes such as building height and setback, traffic,
landscaped area, building orientation or established aesthetic standards.
      6.   Conditions on Variations: The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend
and the Mayor and Board of Trustees may impose specific conditions related to
the requested variation such as landscaping, screening or other improvements or
limitations as needed or appropriate to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts on
adjacent properties or the general area. Failure to comply with such conditions
will be grounds for the Mayor and Board of Trustees to revoke the variation.
      7.   Limitations on Variations:
         a.   Granting of a variation does not constitute any other rights
related to the subject property. All other Village processes and approvals must
be met, including but not limited to: Building Permits, subdivision approval,
authorization of occupancy or authorization of zoning.
         b.   Unless a time extension is granted by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, no variation granted from the provisions of this Ordinance is valid
for a period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days unless a Building Permit
has been issued and construction has begun. In order for the variation to
remain valid after the one hundred eighty (180) day time period, a
certification of completion or occupancy must be issued by the Village, and
work on a project for which the variation was granted must be pursued
diligently to completion.
      8.   Materials to be Submitted: Every application submitted for a
variation shall include the following information:
         a.   The owner’s name, address, signed consent and proof of ownership;
         b.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the owner,
and their interest in the subject property;
         c.   The names and contact information of any professional consultants
advising the applicant with respect to the application;
         d.   The common address of the subject property;
         e.   A description and thorough graphic describing the proposal for
which the variation is being sought and of the existing zoning classification,
use and development of the subject property;
         f.   The specific item(s) that require variation;
         g.   The Ordinance section cited and described from which a variation
is sought and the exact variation being sought;
         h.   Description of the subject property characteristics preventing
compliance with the specified Ordinance regulation;
         i.   Explanation of how the requested relief is the minimum variation
necessary to permit the proposed use, construction or development;
         j.   A statement of how the variation sought would satisfy each of the
standards in Subsection 5 above;
         k.   A current survey, certified by a registered land surveyor,
showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all easements,
all public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and adjacent to the
subject property; and
         l.   A narrative indicating how the request is in keeping with the
Village’s Comprehensive Plan and Official Map. Where the approval being
requested does not conform to these, reasons justifying the approval despite
the lack of conformity shall be provided.
   8-3-D. Amendments:
      1.   Authority: The regulations imposed, and the Zoning Districts created
by this Ordinance may, from time to time, be amended by an ordinance passed by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees after receiving a recommendation from the Plan
Commission. An application for amendment may be filed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, Plan Commission or Zoning Administrator. The owner of a property or
contractual interest in a property with the authorization of the owner may file
for an amendment to the Zoning Map, and any interested person may propose an
amendment to the text of this Ordinance.
      2.   Purpose: Amendments to this Ordinance are primarily intended to
revise or refine the Zoning Ordinance or Zoning Map as needed to keep it a
current and effective tool for development regulation. Amendments should
reflect new conditions or newly identified situations, technologies, business
approaches or unexpected conditions. The amendment process is to relieve a
particular difficulty for an individual applicant, as such changes affect other
aspects of the Ordinance and/or surrounding properties.
      3.   Procedures:
         a.   Applications for amendments shall be filed through procedures
determined by the Village and as defined in this Ordinance. Application forms
shall be provided in forms authorized by the Village Attorney.
         b.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be set before the Plan
Commission, noticed and conducted in keeping with the meeting and notice
provisions of this Chapter.
         c.   Action by the Plan Commission: Within twenty-one (21) days of the
close of the Public Hearing, the Plan Commission shall provide to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees its recommendation to approve, approve with conditions or
deny the amendment application. Failure to do so within twenty-one (21) days,
or longer period if agreed to by the applicant, shall be deemed a
recommendation for denial of the amendment.
         d.   Action by the Mayor and Board of Trustees: Following receipt of a
recommendation by the Plan Commission, the Mayor and Board of Trustees will
either deny the application; remand the matter back to the Plan Commission for
further deliberation; approve the application, by ordinance; or approve the
application with modifications or conditions, by ordinance.
         e.   If the application for amendment is denied, similar application
for relief may not be brought before the Village for a period of one year.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2180.png]
      4.   Standards for Amendments: In considering the appropriateness of
amendments to the Village’s Zoning Ordinance text or Zoning Map, the following
standards shall be considered. The Plan Commission shall submit to the Mayor
and Board of Trustees a written recommendation and findings of fact for each
matter it hears based on the following considerations:
         a.   Consistency and potential impact on the existing use of land and
zoning classifications in proximity to the subject property or the Zoning
District overall. The amendment should not unreasonably affect the value, use
and enjoyment of properties;
         b.   Amendments should be a logical extension of the trend of
development in the area around the subject property or appropriate to the
Zoning District or Ordinance section to which the text amendment is pertinent;
         c.   Consistency with the Village’s Comprehensive Plan, Official Map
and all other plans and policies adopted by the Village;
         d.   Relevant physical or market conditions that may have changed to
make the existing zoning inappropriate and the proposed rezoning in keeping
with the reasonable development of the Village; and
         e.   The extent to which use of the subject property or relevant
properties in the case of a text amendment is diminished by the current zoning
standards or designation, and no longer suitable for the underlying zoning.
      5.   Materials to be Submitted:
         a.   Every application submitted for an amendment shall include the
following information:
            i.   The owner’s name, address, signed consent and proof of
ownership;
            ii.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the
owner, and their interest in the subject property;
            iii.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all
professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the
application;
            iv.   The common address of the subject property;
            v.   A description and/or graphic describing the proposal for which
the amendment is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use
and development of the subject property; and
            vi.   A statement of how the amendment sought would satisfy each of
the standards in Subsection 4 above.
         b.   Applications submitted for a text amendment shall include the
following information:
            i.   The exact wording of the proposed text amendment;
            ii.   A statement of the need and justification for the proposed
text amendment; and
            iii.   A narrative indicating how the request is in keeping with
the Village’s Comprehensive Plan and Official Map. Where the approval being
requested does not conform to these, reasons justifying the approval despite
the lack of conformity shall be provided.
         c.   Applications submitted for a map amendment shall include the
following information:
            i.   The existing uses and zoning classifications of properties in
the vicinity of the subject property;
            ii.   Indication of adequate ingress to and egress from the subject
property and the extent to which traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity
of the subject property would be affected by the proposed map amendment;
            iii.   Indication of adequate utilities and essential public
services to the subject property to accommodate the uses permitted under the
proposed zoning classification;
            iv.   Description of the length of time, if any, that the subject
property has been vacant, considered in the context of the pace of development
in the vicinity of the subject property; and
            v.   The community need for the proposed map amendment and for the
uses and development it would allow.
   8-3-E. Special Uses:
      1.   Authority: Special Use permits may be granted by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees to authorize development of uses identified as Special Uses in the
regulations applicable to the Zoning District in which the subject property is
located. Such approval shall follow a recommendation to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees by the Plan Commission. An application for a Special Use permit may be
filed by the owner of a subject property, or any person having a contractual
interest in, and authorization of the owner.
      2.   Purpose: Some uses of land may have a particular impact or unique
characteristic that merit consideration given their proposed location, site
layout, design and other factors in light of surrounding uses of land,
infrastructure and natural characteristic. In reviewing Special Uses, the
Village shall evaluate such proposals carefully, and may attach conditions to
such requests prior to approval. Such approval shall consider the potential
impact to the surrounding properties and the overall community as compared to
public need and potential benefit.
      3.   Procedures:
         a.   Applications for Special Uses shall be filed through procedures
determined by the Village and as defined in this Ordinance. Application forms
shall be provided in forms authorized by the Village Attorney.
         b.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be set before the Plan
Commission, noticed and conducted in keeping with the meeting and notice
provisions of this Chapter.
         c.   Action by the Plan Commission: Within twenty-one (21) days of the
close of the Public Hearing, the Plan Commission shall provide to the Mayor and
Board of Trustees its recommendation to approve, approve with conditions or
deny the Special Use application. Failure to do so within twenty-one (21) days,
or longer period if agreed to by the applicant, shall be deemed a
recommendation for denial of the Special Use application.
         d.   Action by the Mayor and Board of Trustees: Following receipt of a
recommendation by the Plan Commission, the Mayor and Board of Trustees will
either deny the application or, by ordinance, approve the application or
approve the application with modifications or conditions.
         e.   If the application for Special Use is denied, similar application
for relief may not be brought before the Village for a period of one year.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2182.png]
      4.   Standards for Special Uses: In considering the appropriateness of a
Special Use, the following standards shall be considered. The Plan Commission
shall submit to the Mayor and Board of Trustees a recommendation and findings
of fact for each matter it hears based on the following considerations:
         a.   Consistency and potential impact on the existing use of land in
proximity to the subject property. The Special Use should not unduly impact
adjacent or nearby properties or the general health, safety and welfare of the
general area and overall community. Impacts to be considered include ingress
and egress to the site, potential traffic impacts from cars and trucks and
impacts to the appearance and character of the area;
         b.   Consistency with the Village’s Comprehensive Plan, Official Map
and all other plans and policies adopted by the Village;
         c.   The proposed plan and site design are in keeping with relevant
elements of the Elk Grove Village Industrial Commercial Revitalization Master
Plan Update;
         d.   Special Uses should be a logical extension of the trend of
development in the area around the subject property and shall not interfere
with the use and development of adjacent or nearby properties;
         e.   Adequate public facilities and services are available to serve
the Special Use and the property on which it is located; including storm water,
sanitary sewer, water service, public safety service and waste disposal
services; and
         f.   The on-site development design should be understandable to users,
safe and maintainable in terms of road and pedestrian patterns, preservation of
natural features and incorporating such features into a maintainable
development and providing adequate parking, loading and site maintenance.
      5.   Conditions on Special Uses: The Plan Commission may recommend, and
the Mayor and Board of Trustees may impose, specific conditions related to the
requested Special Use such as landscaping, screening or other improvements or
limitations as needed or appropriate to prevent or mitigate adverse impacts on
adjacent properties or the general area. Failure to comply with such conditions
will be grounds for the Mayor and Board of Trustees to revoke the Special Use.
      6.   Limitations on Special Uses:
         a.   Granting of a Special Use does not constitute any other rights
related to the subject property. All other Village processes and approvals must
be met, including but not limited to: Building Permits, subdivision approval,
authorization of occupancy or authorization of zoning;
         b.   Unless a time extension is granted by the Zoning Administrator,
no Special Use granted under the provisions of this Ordinance is valid for a
period longer than one hundred eighty (180) days unless a Building Permit has
been issued and construction has begun. In order for the Special Use to remain
valid after the one hundred eighty (180) day time period, a certification of
completion or occupancy must be issued by the Village, or work on a project for
which the Special Use was granted must be pursued diligently to completion;
         c.   The Zoning Administrator may grant a one hundred eighty (180) day
extension for the issuance of a Building Permit, per Subsection 6b above, if
the applicant provides cause for said delay. If at the end of the one hundred
eighty (180) day extension a Building Permit is not secured and work initiated,
the Zoning Administrator may grant a second one hundred eighty (180) day
extension for a permit to be issued and work begun;
         d.   If a Building Permit has not been secured and work diligently
begun within twelve (12) months of approval of the Special Use, the Mayor and
Board of Trustees may consider and take action to rescind the Special Use
Permit;
         e.   Amendments to Special Uses: A Special Use granted by the Village
may only be amended, varied or altered through the procedures for Special Uses
set out in this Ordinance, as if it were a newly requested Special Use, unless
the requested changed is determined by the Zoning Administrator to be in
substantial conformance with the initial approval;
         f.   Authority to Transfer Special Uses to New Owners: A Special Use
granted by the Village shall only be valid for the owner/operator to whom the
Special Use is granted, rather than the property on which the use is located;
and
         g.   Discontinuance: A Special Use shall automatically expire and no
longer be in effect if the use to which it was granted, for any reason, is
discontinued for a period of six (6) months or greater.
      7.   Materials to be Submitted: Every application submitted for a Special
Use shall include the following information:
         a.   The owner’s name, address, signed consent and proof of ownership;
         b.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the owner,
and their interest in the
subject property;
         c.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all professional
consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the application;
         d.   The common address of the subject property;
         e.   A description and/or graphic describing the proposal for which
the appeal is being sought and of the existing zoning classification, use and
development of the subject property;
         f.   A written statement of the need for the Special Use permit;
         g.   A statement of how the Special Use sought would satisfy each of
the standards in Section 4 above; and
         h.   A current survey, certified by a registered land surveyor,
showing existing lot lines and dimensions as well as lot area, all easements,
all public and private rights-of-way and all streets across and adjacent to the
subject property.
   8-3-F. Zoning Certificates:
      1.   Authority: Prior to review of any application for a non-single-
family residential zoning approval, Building Permit or occupancy permit in
cases where reuse of an existing facility does not require a Building Permit,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the application conforms with the
regulations of this Ordinance and certifies such by issuance of a Zoning
Certificate.
      2.   Purpose: Implementation of Village plans, policies and ordinances
related to the built environment depends, in part, on compliance with the
regulations of this Ordinance. This includes, but is not limited to, ensuring
that land uses are located appropriately within the Village, parking and
loading standards are met, and bulk and aesthetic standards are met.
      3.   Procedure:
         a.   The owner, occupant or user, prior to using premises and the
issuance of an occupancy certificate, or any subsequent owner, occupant or
user, shall submit an application for same detailing the nature of the proposed
use on forms approved by the Village Attorney. The application shall include a
certification by the owner or a licensed engineer that the proposed use will
conform to all standards of this Zoning Ordinance;
         b.   The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall
conduct a review of relevant zoning standards within twenty-one (21) days, or
advise the proposed user as to reasons for refusal of issuing the certificate,
need for additional information or reasons for any delay;
         c.   Upon notification from the Zoning Administrator authorizing
issuance of a Zoning Certificate, the applicant shall have thirty (30) calendar
days to respond and accept the Zoning Certificate. Should the applicant fail to
respond within thirty (30) calendar days, the application shall be considered
voided;
         d.   Zoning Certificate shall be valid only so long as the use is made
of the premises for which issued and provided the information submitted to
obtain same is accurate and complete. The Village shall not be prevented by the
issuance of the certification from terminating same if the use made of the
premises is not in conformity with the certificate or Village Ordinances; and
         e.   The fee for the Zoning Certificate review shall be as established
from time to time by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, plus such additional out
of pocket costs reasonably incurred should outside consultants, testing
facilities or the like be necessary.
   8-3-G. Site Plan Review
      1.   Authority: In cases authorized in Subsection 3a below, the Zoning
Administrator may, in keeping with the procedures and standards set out in this
Section, grant site plan review approval to uses and developments requiring
such consideration. Site plan review approval is not required for applications
considered through a Special Use process, as those matters are reviewed at the
Plan Commission. Applications for site plan review approval may be brought by
the owner of a property, or persons with a contractual interest in a property,
and having authorization of the owner.
      2.   Purpose: Site plan review addresses uses and developments
appropriate for a Zoning District but considers that there may be potential
adverse impacts for how a site is designed or used, and that require a more
detailed evaluation than is otherwise incorporated into the Building Permit,
life safety and related considerations. The standards and procedures in this
Section are designed to provide a thoughtful and efficient evaluation of such
development applications.
      3.   Procedure:
         a.   Site Plan Review Required: The Zoning Administrator shall conduct
site plan review as outlined in this Section for the following developments:
            i.   New multiple-family residential development;
            ii.   Renovation to multiple-family residential sites that involve
reconfiguration of parking areas, drive aisles, building access or other
vehicular areas;
            iii.   New non-residential development; and
            iv.   Renovation to non-residential sites that involve
reconfiguration of parking areas, drive aisles, building access or other
vehicular areas.
         b.   Appeal: In the case of a site plan review application being
denied by the Zoning Administrator, an appeal to the denial may be sought
pursuant to the appeal process outlined in this Ordinance.
         c.   Zoning Administrator Reviews:
            i.   Application: Applications for site plan review approval by the
Zoning Administrator will be considered filed with the Village as part of a
Building Permit application for matters noted in Subsection 3a above.
            ii.   Action by Village: Based on review of the application, the
Zoning Administrator will either: approve the site plan as submitted; approve
it subject to conditions based on the standards noted below, with a written
explanation to the applicant or deny approval of the site plan based on written
findings provided to the applicant and considering standards below. The failure
of the Zoning Administrator to act within said sixty (60) days, or such further
time to which the applicant may agree, will be deemed to be a decision denying
the site plan as submitted. In reviewing a submitted site plan regarding the
standards below, the Zoning Administrator may suggest alternative site plan or
design approaches that could address specified deficiencies or may note that
such deficiencies that cannot be avoided would have minimal adverse impact on
the property or nearby properties.
            iii.   Effect of Village Action: Approval of a site plan by the
Zoning Administrator, acceptance of required modifications by the applicant or
agreement by the applicant and Zoning Administrator on an approach to address
required modifications will constitute final action regarding site plan review.
All other Village Building Permit and Ordinance requirements must still be met
for the proposed construction. The action of the Zoning Administrator in
denying an application for site plan approval or in approving a site plan
subject to modifications that are not acceptable to the applicant, which action
the applicant may treat as a denial, will be considered authorization for the
applicant to seek approval of the site plan by way of the appeal procedure set
forth in this Ordinance.
            iv.   Appeals: If the Zoning Administrator denies a site plan
review application and the applicant wishes to appeal that denial, the
applicant shall file such appeal with the Zoning Administrator within forty-
five (45) days of the date of the formal denial.
            v.   Time Constraints: Unless an extension is granted by the Zoning
Administrator as a result of written request by the applicant showing good
cause and external factors necessitating an extension, no site plan or design
approval will be valid for a period longer than six (6) months unless a
Building Permit is issued. Within one year of site plan review approval,
construction must have begun and if not completed be actively pursued to
completion.
      4.   Standards for Site Plan Review: In considering a site plan submitted
for review pursuant to this Section, the Zoning Administrator will consider the
following standards:
         a.   The application must be complete as specified in this Ordinance,
other Village regulations or other requirements specified by the Village;
         b.   Any other application for approval by the Village or other
jurisdiction relevant to items considered under site plan review must be
successfully secured;
         c.   The proposed site plan or design is logical, safe and facilitates
clear understanding of travel and circulation within the property, as well as
to and from the site by vehicles, pedestrians and bicyclists;
         d.   The site plan and design must be in keeping with the Industrial
Commercial Revitalization Master Plan Update;
         e.   The proposed site plan and design do not interfere with easements
or rights-of-way, or create traffic hazards or congestion on surrounding public
streets;
         f.   The proposed site plan or design does not adversely impact use
and enjoyment of surrounding properties;
         g.   Outdoor storage is adequately screened and located on the
property;
         h.   The proposed site plan or design does not create drainage or
erosion problems;
         i.   The proposed site plan or design should not place unreasonable
burdens on Village or other utility systems serving the site or area. The site
plan should integrate site utilities into the overall existing and planned
utility systems serving the Village;
         j.   The proposed site plan or design must provide for required public
improvements as may be directed in this Ordinance or Village planning
documents;
         k.   The proposed site plan or design shall not otherwise adversely
impact the public health, safety or general welfare; and
         l.   The site design does not require use of any street adjacent to
the property for vehicle maneuvering to conduct off-street loading.
      5.   Modifications:
         a.   During development of the site, the Zoning Administrator will
have authority to authorize any adjustment to an approved site plan or design
that could have been authorized in the course of the original site plan review.
         b.   Amendments to Site Plan or Design Following Completion of
Development; After a site is developed in accordance with an approved site plan
and design, the approved site plan may be amended, varied or altered in the
same manner and subject to the same limitations as provided for the original
approval of site plans.
      6.   Submittal Requirements: Every application submitted for site plan
review will contain the following information, except that the Zoning
Administrator may waive items deemed unnecessary or require additional
information as needed to conduct the review:
         a.   The owner’s name, address, signed consent and proof of ownership;
         b.   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the owner,
and their interest in the subject property;
         c.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all professional
consultants and contractors, if any, relevant to the application;
         d.   The common address and legal description of the subject property;
         e.   A description and/or graphic describing the proposal for which
site plan approval is being sought and of the existing zoning classification,
use and development of the subject property;
         f.   A graphic rendering of the existing conditions, which depicts all
significant natural, topographical and physical features of the subject
property including drainage structure and pattern, relevant soil conditions and
topographical contours at one foot intervals;
         g.   The location, use, size and height in stories and feet of
structures and other land uses on adjacent properties;
         h.   Data and related calculations concerning proposed structures and
existing structures
that will remain, including:
            i.   Location, size, use and height;
            ii.   Where relevant, gross floor area and floor area ratio;
            iii.   Where relevant, number and size of dwelling units, by
dwelling unit type and number of bedrooms; and
            iv.   Building coverage.
         i.   Yard and setback dimensions and dimensions related to the height,
width and depth of any structure, as well as proximity to property lines;
         j.   A vehicular and pedestrian circulation plan showing the location,
dimensions, gradient and number of all vehicular and pedestrian circulation
elements;
         k.   All existing and proposed drainage, retention and detention
facilities and existing and proposed utilities and easements;
         l.   Location, size and arrangements of all outdoor signs and
lighting;
         m.   Location and height of fences, screens or plantings intended as
screens and the type or kind of building materials or plantings to be used for
fencing or screening;
         n.   Location, designation and total area of all usable open space;
         o.   A detailed landscaping plan, showing location, size and species
of all trees, shrubs and other plant material;
         p.   A traffic study, if required by the Zoning Administrator; and
         q.   Building elevations and floor plans.
§ 8-4 FEES/PENALTIES.
   8-4-A. Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: Every application filed pursuant to this Ordinance
will be subject to a non-refundable application fee in the amount established
by the Mayor and Board of Trustees, as amended from time to time.
      2.   Applicants will also be responsible to cover the actual cost, as
hereinafter defined, incurred by the Village in Processing an application.
      3.   The owner of the property which is the subject of the application
and, if different, the applicant, will be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of all fees.
   8-4-B. Penalties:
      1.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this Ordinance shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a violation
occurs or continues.
      2.   Additional Remedies: In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this Ordinance, the Village
Attorney, in addition to other remedies, may institute any proper action or
proceedings, in the name of the Village to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use to restrain, correct or abate such violation; to prevent the occupancy of
said building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about said premises.
      Upon finding the existence of any violation of this Code, the Zoning
Administrator, or its designee, will have the authority and duty to take or
direct all actions necessary or appropriate to punish and abate such violation.
CHAPTER 9: NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS
Section
   
9-1   General Provisions
   
9-2   Non-Conforming Uses of Land
   
9-3   Non-Conforming Structures
   
9-4   Non-Conforming Lots
§ 9-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Purpose: This Chapter regulates continuation of uses, structures and lots
established prior to the effective date of this Ordinance that do not conform
to its current relevant regulations.
§ 9-2 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Non-conforming uses of land may be continued subject to the following
regulations.
   9-2-A: Only that portion of the property, either land or structure, in
actual use as a nonconformity may be continued; said non-conforming use may not
be extended, enlarged, substituted or moved, except when required to do so by
law or order or so as to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   9-2-B: Whenever a non-conforming use on any property has been discontinued
for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or eighteen (18) cumulative
months within a thirty-six (36) month period, any future use of the structure,
land or property shall conform to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   9-2-C: A non-conforming use shall not be changed to another or different
non-conforming use.
   9-2-D: A structure containing a non-conforming use or related equipment may
be maintained to keep the use in compliance with applicable Village nuisance
ordinances and the environmental performance standards of this Ordinance.
   9-2-E: Once a non-conforming use has been changed or altered so as to comply
with the provisions of this Chapter, it shall not revert back to a non-
conforming use.
   9-2-F: A structure that is accessory to a non-conforming use of land may be
maintained or repaired to keep the use and accessory structure in compliance
with applicable Village nuisance ordinances and the performance standards of
this Ordinance. Such structure may not be altered or enlarged.
§ 9-3 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Non-conforming structures may remain in use subject to the following
regulations:
   9-3-A: Normal repairs, maintenance, renovations, additions and enlargements
to existing non-conforming structures are permitted and shall conform with the
established building setback lines along streets and the yard, height, parking,
loading and access provisions of this Ordinance. No alterations to an existing
non-conforming structure may increase the extent of the nonconformity.
   9-3-B: A non-conforming structure damaged by any means not within the
control of the owner thereof, may be restored, unless the damage exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the replacement value of the structure, in which case, it must
thereafter conform to this Ordinance. The Zoning Administrator shall determine
the amount of damage.
   9-3-C: Proposed structures for which Building Permits have been issued prior
to their designation as non-conforming by the effective date of this Ordinance
may be completed and used as originally intended subject to these non-
conforming provisions.
   9-3-D: Once a non-conforming structure has been changed or altered so as to
comply with the provisions of this Chapter, it shall not revert back to a non-
conforming structure.
   9-3-E: Non-Conforming Fences: All fences heretofore lawfully constructed and
not in conformity with this Ordinance shall be deemed non-conforming structures
and may continue to exist. A non-conforming fence may be repaired or replaced
as long as the new fence or parts of said fence are constructed to the same
state they existed in at the time of repair or replacement including but not
limited to the fence height and location. A non-conforming fence may not be
altered or enlarged in such a manner that would increase the extent of the
nonconformity.
§ 9-4 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   Non-conforming lots of land may be continued subject to the following
regulations:
   9-4-A: When upon change of owner, change of use or due to site
redevelopment, a lot is in substantial conformance with the intent and purpose
of this Code as determined by the Zoning Administrator, it may remain.
   9-4-B: An individual lot of record in existence at the time of the adoption
of this Chapter which can fulfill at least eighty (80%) percent of the required
lot area and at least eighty (80%) percent of the required lot width may be
developed for a use permitted within the zoning district in which the lot is
located, provided that it can be developed in full compliance with the yard
requirements.
CHAPTER 10: ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Section
   
10-1   Purpose
   
10-2   Performance Standard Review Certification
   
10-3   Compliance with Provisions
§ 10-1 PURPOSE.
   This Chapter provides that no property or structure shall be used or
occupied to create any dangerous, injurious and noxious condition that may
adversely affect the adjoining properties or surrounding area. All uses
permitted by this Ordinance may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable
measures and safeguards are employed to limit objectionable aspects to
acceptable limits, as established by the following performance standards and
other requirements of the Village Code.
§ 10-2 PERFORMANCE STANDARD REVIEW CERTIFICATION.
      1.   Definition: As part of the Zoning Certificate required per Section
3-1-D of this Ordinance, a Performance Standard Review shall be conducted by
the Zoning Administrator, or their designee, to determine that proposed land
uses can meet the performance standards of this Chapter.
      2.   Process: Prior to receiving a Certificate of Occupancy, the owner or
user of all non-residential properties shall submit an application detailing
the nature of the proposed use on forms prepared by the Village and as approved
by the Village Attorney. The application shall include a certification by the
owner or a licensed engineer that the proposed use will conform to the
performance standards defined in this Chapter.
      The Zoning Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall issue a
Performance Standard Review Certification within twenty-one (21) days or advise
the applicant as to reasons for refusal or delay. In the event of an adverse
decision, the applicant shall have a right of appeal to the Zoning
Administrator
      A Performance Standard Review Certification shall be valid only for the
use and user evaluated, and only so long as the information submitted for said
use remains accurate and complete. The Village may terminate a Performance
Standard Review Certification if use of the premises is not in conformity with
the Zoning Certificate or Village Ordinances.
      3.   Fee and Cost Recapture: The fee for a Performance Standard Review
Certification shall be as established from time to time by the Mayor and Board
of Trustees. In addition to such fee, any additional costs incurred by the
Village for outside consultants, testing facilities or other assistance
necessary to evaluate whether a use will meet the standards of this Chapter, or
that a use of property continues to meet the standards of this Chapter shall be
reimbursed to the Village by the property owner.
§ 10-3 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All uses currently existing or established in the Village shall be operated
in such a manner as to comply with the applicable performance standards defined
in this Chapter. No use already established on the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with the applicable
environmental performance standards of this Chapter.
   10-3-A. Noise: The following requirements shall apply to all uses.
      1.   Sound pressure levels shall be in keeping with current State of
Illinois standards as prescribed by the Illinois Pollution Control Board
(Subtitle H: Noise), as may be amended from time to time.
      2.   Exceptions: The following activities shall be exempted from the
rules and regulations of this Section:
         a.   Sound emitted from emergency warning or safety devices;
         b.   Sound emitted from lawn care maintenance equipment used during
daylight hours;
         c.   Sound emitted from vehicles, snowblowers and similar equipment
used for snow removal and hauling operations;
         d.   Sound emitted from equipment being used for construction between
the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., of each
day, or for such additional hours as may be authorized by the Zoning
Administrator; and
         e.   Sound emitted from trucks and vehicles entering or leaving
industrial zoned property, except as may be caused by idling engines, off the
road vehicles, mixers on ready mix concrete trucks, trailer mounted
refrigeration units or similar devices.
      3.   Trash Collection: No trash collection may be conducted prior to
seven o’clock (7:00) AM on sites adjacent to a residential property.
   10-3-B. Vibration: The following requirements shall apply to all uses.
      1.   Any process or equipment that produces intense earth-shaking
vibrations such as are created by drop forges, hydraulic surges or other
processes shall be set back at least five hundred (500') feet from the property
boundaries on all sides, except for a property line adjoining an I-2 Zoning
District. However, in no case shall such vibrations be allowed to create a
Public Nuisance as regulated by Title 4, Chapter 2 of the Village Code, as may
be amended from time to time, or hazard beyond the property boundaries.
      2.   Exceptions: The provisions of this Section shall not apply to sound
emitted from equipment being used for permitted construction between the hours
of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M., of each day.
   10-3-C. Air Pollution: Any visual emissions, particulate matter emissions,
odor, airborne toxic material and other air pollution shall meet the current
standards of the Illinois Pollution Control Board; Title 35, Subtitle B, Air
Pollution, Chapter I, Pollution Control Board, as may be amended from time to
time.
   10-3-D. Toxic Substances: Regulations pertaining to all toxic substances
shall be as follows:
      1.   Definitions:
         a.   Highly Toxic Substances: A highly toxic substance is hereby
defined as chemical or substance that is listed as an Extremely Hazardous
Substance by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as may be amended from
time to time.
         b.   Toxic Substance: Any gas, liquid, solid, semisolid substance or
mixture of substances, which if discharged into the environment could, alone or
in combination with other substances likely to be present in the environment,
cause or threaten to cause bodily injury, illness or death to members of the
general public through ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body
surface. In addition, substances which are corrosive, irritants, strong
sensitizer or radioactive substances other than highly toxic radioactive
substances shall be considered toxic substances for the purposes of this
regulation.
      2.   Regulation:
         a.   Highly Toxic Substances: The storage, use or handling of highly
toxic material as defined in 10-3-D-1a shall be as required by applicable
regulations of the Illinois Pollution Control Board, the ICC Codes as adopted
by Elk Grove Village, the National Fire Protection Association - National Fire
Codes as adopted by Elk Grove Village and all other applicable Village
regulations and ordinances, as adopted or amended from time to time.
         b.   Toxic Substance: The use, storage, handling or transport of toxic
substances as defined 10-3-D-1b shall comply with applicable regulations of the
Illinois Pollution Control Board, the National Fire Protection Association -
National Fire Codes as adopted by Elk Grove Village, the ICC Codes as adopted
by the Village and all other applicable Village regulations and ordinances, as
may be adopted or amended from time to time.
         c.   Permit Required: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
use, storage, handling or transportation of highly toxic substances shall be
required to obtain a permit from the Elk Grove Village Fire Department. Permit
applicants shall provide all information as determined necessary by the Fire
Department to ascertain compliance with the above referenced and adopted rules
and regulations. The Fire Department shall make an inspection of the
applicant’s premises to determine such compliance prior to the issuance of the
permit.
   10-3-E. Water Pollution: All land uses shall comply with all applicable
rules and regulations of the State of Illinois Pollution Control Board
regarding water pollution, Title 35, Subtitle C, entitled Water Pollution, as
may be amended from time to time.
   10-3-F. Fire and Explosion Hazards: Materials that present potential fire
and explosive hazards shall be transported, stored and used only in conformance
with all applicable Federal, State and Village laws, as may be amended from
time to time.
   10-3-G. Storage and Use of Materials: The storage, use or manufacture of
materials referenced in this Subsection shall be regulated as follows.
      1.   The storage, use or manufacturing of materials or products conducted
within completely enclosed buildings shall be in keeping with the ICC Codes
adopted by Elk Grove Village and any other applicable Ordinances.
      2.   The storage or utilization of flammable liquids and gases shall be
conducted only in accordance with all applicable Federal, State and Village
laws.
      3.   All flammable liquid and gas storage tanks shall be a minimum of
fifty feet (50') from all lot lines.
      4.   All equipment storage areas shall be graded for proper drainage and
provided with an all weather surfacing maintained at all times in such a manner
as to prevent the release of dust and to be free of dust, trash and debris.
   10-3-H. Odor: The release of materials intrinsically odorous or capable of
being odorous, either by bacterial decomposition or chemical reaction, which
renders it perceptible from beyond the zoning lot shall be regulated per
Subsection 4-2-2A of the Village Code: Offensive Smells, as may be amended from
time to time.
   10-3-I. Sewage Waste: Sewers and sewage discharge shall meet the appropriate
Village Codes and all IEPA requirements.
   10-3-J. Electromagnetic Interference: Electromagnetic interference from any
equipment or business operations shall not adversely affect the operation of
any equipment located on adjacent or nearby properties.
   10-3-K. Glare: All lighting shall meet the following requirements.
      1.   All lighting sources shall be arranged to reflect light away from
adjoining properties in a manner that does not produce glare clearly visible
beyond a property line so as to cause nuisance or impairment of vision. Glare
is best reduced when the light source is not visible from adjacent properties.
Therefore, the use of lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers or prismatic control
devices shall be used to eliminate nuisance and hazardous lighting to
facilitate compliance with this requirement.
      2.   In all residential zoning districts, no light source shall cause
illumination in excess of one-half (1/2) foot-candle at any property lot line.
      3.   In all zoning districts other than residential districts, no light
source shall cause illumination in excess of one (1) foot-candle at any
property lot line.
CHAPTER 11: LANDSCAPING AND SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
11-1   Purpose
   
11-2   Approval for Screening and Landscaping Plans
   
11-3   Transitional Screening Requirements
   
11-4   Screening of Accessory Structures and Equipment
   
11-5   Landscaping Requirements
§ 11-1 PURPOSE.
   This Chapter establishes minimum site development and landscaping
regulations for all office, business and industrial uses and multiple-family
residential uses of six (6) dwelling units or greater. The regulations
establish standards for screening more intensive uses to protect abutting
properties, on-site landscaping and the maintenance thereof. The provisions of
this Chapter shall not supersede screening or landscaping provisions of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance, other sections of this Zoning Ordinance or the
Industrial Commercial Revitalization Master Plan Update, but shall be deemed
additive to those standards.
§ 11-2 APPROVAL FOR SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING PLANS.
   Prior to the issuance of any Building Permit for regulated development noted
in Section 11-1, the developer shall submit to the Village a screening and
landscaping plan evidencing compliance with the terms and conditions of this
Chapter. Such plan must be approved by the Zoning Administrator and, where
applicable, recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees as indicated below:
   11-2-A. Landscape Screening Abutting Single-Family Residential Uses.
Landscape plans prepared for all office, business and industrial uses and
multiple-family residential uses of six (6) dwelling units or greater that are
abutting any areas zoned for single-family residential use, shall be forwarded
for review to the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall consider the
extent to which the landscaping plan mitigates any adverse views or other
impacts on the single-family property and make a recommendation of such to the
Mayor and Board of Trustees. Upon receiving the Plan Commission recommendation,
the Mayor and Board of Trustees may approve, deny or approve with conditions
the submitted landscaping plan. The Mayor and Board of Trustees may also choose
to refer the landscape plan back to the Plan Commission for further
deliberation and recommendation.
   11-2-B. Landscape Screening of Structures and Equipment. Landscaping plans
prepared for purposes of screening structures and equipment in all office,
business and industrial uses and multiple-family residential uses of six (6)
dwelling units or greater shall be considered and approved by the Zoning
Administrator, or their designee, to evaluate the extent to which the proposed
landscape screening plan eliminates or substantially mitigates visibility of
the structure or equipment from the public right-of-way and adjacent
properties.
§ 11-3 TRANSITIONAL SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   All office, business and industrial uses and multiple-family residential
uses of six (6) dwelling units or greater in business, office transitional,
innovation and technology center, industrial and multi-family zoning districts
abutting areas zoned for residential use, shall install and maintain an opaque
screen along all lot lines adjacent to such residential use. Except as
otherwise provided, it shall have a total height of not less than six (6') feet
nor more than eight (8') feet. Where there is a difference in elevation on
opposite sides of the screen, the height shall be measured from the highest
elevation. A screen shall consist of one or more of the following types or as
otherwise recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
   11-3-A. Berms: A berm may be banked on both sides or with one side banked
toward the lot line with a retaining wall. A berm shall not be less than ten
(10') feet wide at the base and shall be constructed of earthen materials and
landscaped.
   11-3-B. Plants: Plant materials, when used as a screen, shall consist of
dense evergreen plants, deciduous plants and any mixture the Plan Commission
recommends. Plant materials shall be of a kind and used in such a manner as to
provide screening having a minimum width of three (3') feet within eighteen
(18) months after initial installation. Plant materials will not be limited to
a maximum height. The Zoning Administrator may require that additional
plantings be installed if, after eighteen (18) months after installation, plant
materials have not formed a one hundred (100%) percent screen or such a screen
is not maintained.
   11-3-C. Fencing: Fencing type and location shall be as allowed by this
Ordinance, or as recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the Mayor
and Board of Trustees.
§ 11-4 SCREENING OF ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Screening of all accessory structures and equipment shall be required on all
properties in business, office transitional, multi-family and innovation and
technology center zoning districts. Screening shall be required for all
properties in industrial zoning districts when, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, such accessory structures or equipment are visible from any
street or residentially zoned property.
   11-4-A. Screening of Trash and Recycling Receptacles
      1.   The screening shall consist of solid material screening or screen
wall(s) having a minimum height of eight feet (8'), or as required by the
Zoning Administrator in order to adequately screen the conditions described in
this Section.
      2.   Materials used for screening shall be solid masonry, stone or
equivalent material as determined by the Zoning Administrator and complement
the architecture of the principal structure.
      3.   Materials and architectural character for enclosures that are
attached to buildings shall be designed as a screen wall compatible with the
principal structure. If enclosures are to be attached to buildings, they shall
comply with applicable Fire and Building codes.
      4.   Enclosure openings directly visible from a public right-of-way and/
or adjoining residentially zoned property shall have a solid material gate.
      5.   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether proposed screening
of trash and recycling receptacles satisfy the screening requirement as set
forth in this Subsection and mitigate views of the receptacles from the public
right-of-way or adjacent residentially zoned property.
   11-4-B. Screening of Ground Mounted Equipment
      1.   All ground mounted equipment shall be screened by fencing, berms,
plantings, screen wall or any combination thereof, to sufficiently obscure such
equipment from view from all adjacent streets and residentially zoned property.
      2.   All fences installed to satisfy the screening requirement set forth
in this Section shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator based on whether
views of said equipment from the public right-of-way or adjacent residentially
zoned property have been mitigated.
   11-4-C. Screening of Roof Mounted Equipment
      1.   All roof mounted equipment shall be screened by the use of an opaque
screening material or screen wall compatible with the architecture of the
building, or architecturally designed screening elements such as a parapet
wall. The screening of the roof-mounted equipment shall be designed to blend
with the building and roof materials.
      2.   Roof mounted equipment located such that equipment at the center of
the building may not be seen from adjacent public thoroughfares or
residentially zoned property shall be considered screened, based on a
determination of the Zoning Administrator that the objectives of this
Subsection have been met.
      3.   A determination as to whether the roof mounted equipment is
adequately and appropriately screened shall be made by the Zoning Administer
based on visibility of said equipment from adjacent roadways. The height of a
required screen wall to accomplish this objective shall be determined upon the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator so long as the overall height of the
structure and screening element does not exceed limitations set forth in Table
7.1 of this Ordinance.
   11-4-D. Screening of Loading Docks, Service Yards and Exterior Work or
Storage Areas
      1.   Loading docks, service yards and exterior work or storage areas
shall be screened from view from public rights-of-way and adjacent lots.
      2.   The screening shall consist of solid material screening or screen
wall(s) having a minimum height of eight feet (8'), or as required by the
Zoning Administrator in order to adequately screen the conditions described in
this Section.
   11-4-E. Screen Walls: Where permitted for screening of accessory structures
or equipment, screen walls shall be constructed of the same material as the
principal structure. The location and height of the screen wall shall be
determined by the Zoning Administrator so as to meet the objectives of this
Section for screening accessory structures and equipment from view.
§ 11-5 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   11-5-A. Landscaping: Landscaping consisting of standard, Village-approved
evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs in combination with vines, ground
cover and grass shall be installed and maintained according to the standards
hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that said requirements shall not be
applicable to industrial uses which are adjacent to other industrial uses or
industrial districts on all sides, unless adjacent to the following roadways:
      1.   Oakton Street;
      2.   Busse Road;
      3.   Devon Avenue;
      4.   Elmhurst Road;
      5.   Higgins Road;
      6.   Landmeier Road.
   In meeting the standards of this Section, the Industrial Commercial
Revitalization Master Plan Update (ICRC Plan) shall be used to determine the
most appropriate level of planting and design format of landscaped areas.
Determination as to whether the submitted landscaping plans are in keeping with
the standards of the ICRC Plan shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   General Site Landscaping Requirements: The following landscaping
regulations shall apply to all uses other than single-family residential:
         a.   All earthen areas outside of prescribed planting areas shall be
covered with sod or other approved live ground cover, stone and gravel are not
approved surfaces. Areas within prescribed planting areas shall be mulched or
regularly spaded to eliminate weeds;
         b.   Boundary landscaping for newly constructed structures or
developments is required for a minimum depth of ten (10') feet from the right-
of-way line along all abutting streets or rights-of-way, except for the
openings and the areas within ten (10') feet on either side of street openings.
Within this boundary landscaping area, there shall be the equivalent of at
least one standard tree and eight (8) standard shrubs for each forty (40') feet
of total street frontage, planted in an aesthetically attractive manner and
practical arrangement along the frontage. To the extent practicable, these
shall include any existing standard trees or shrubs within the boundary
landscaping area;
         c.   Additional landscaped areas equal to at least five percent (5%)
of the total area of the parcel is required. Within this area, the equivalent
of at least one standard tree and one standard shrub is required for each five
hundred (500) square feet or fraction thereof of an area to be landscaped; and
         d.   Where it has been determined that site constraints related to
site size, impacts from adjacent properties, visibility required for businesses
or safe operations exist which may limit the ability of a particular site to
conform to requirements herein, the Zoning Administrator may evaluate the
proposal and make a determination for alternative compliance. Allowed
alternatives shall be found by the Zoning Administrator to be of equal or
greater design quality as what would have otherwise been installed per the
requirements of this Ordinance.
      2.   Landscaping for Parking and Loading Areas:
         All parking and loading areas, including any associated equipment
shall be properly screened and landscaped as listed within this Chapter. All
landscaping plans and plant material for parking and loading areas shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator so as to be in keeping with the standards
of the ICRC.
         a.   General Parking Lot Landscaping:
            i.   Lots with less than five (5) parking spaces are not subject to
the parking area landscaping provisions of this Section.
            ii.   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to waive or
reduce the landscaping provisions and requirements of this Section upon receipt
of a written request for such waiver. The Zoning Administrator shall only waive
or reduce the standards of this Section upon finding that there exist unique
circumstances, a particular hardship related to site size, impacts from
adjacent properties, visibility required for businesses or safe operations and
that granting relief will not have the effect of changing the character of the
general area.
         b.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
            i.   Landscaping must be dispersed throughout the parking area. A
portion of the required landscaping may be located so as to provide screening
of loading areas;
            ii.   One standard tree for each twenty (20) parking spaces is
required. Spacing shall be subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator;
            iii.   A curbed landscape island equal to or greater in size to the
adjacent parking spaces shall be provided at least every fifteen (15) parking
spaces based on a single row of such spaces;
            iv.   A curbed landscaped island with at least one tree shall be
required at the end of all parking rows, and shall be equal to or greater in
size to the adjacent parking spaces; and
            v.   Tree planting islands or curbed landscaped planter bed areas
shall be installed and maintained. Spacing shall be subject to approval through
the Site Plan Review process outlined in Chapter 8 of this Ordinance.
         c.   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping:
            i.   Existing vegetation which meets, in whole or in part, the
purposes of perimeter landscaping above, may be applied toward requirements.
            ii.   A strip of grass not less than three feet (3') wide shall be
maintained at the property line so that this area can be regularly mowed and
maintained.
         d.   Pedestrian Access:
            i.   All parking lots with two (2) or more double-loaded rows must
provide internal pedestrian walkways within the Parking Area and outside of the
parking row;
            ii.   The walkway must be a minimum of five feet (5') in width;
            iii.   One walkway is required for every two (2) double loaded
aisles;
            iv.   The walkway must be located within the parking area to serve
the maximum number of parking stalls;
            v.   All walkways must meet ADA accessibility requirements;
            vi.   All parking lots must include walkways that provide direct
connections to building entrances from the spaces furthest from the entrance.
At least one walkway must provide a direct connection between the building
entrances and the adjacent public rights-of-way and associated sidewalk; and
            vii.   All pedestrian walkways must be clearly marked with high-
visibility striping or alternative materials. Where walkways cross a drive
aisle, the walkway must have a continuous surface treatment across the drive
aisle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/58f7c3c3d1af2bdd601a44c204008d26c3863b6d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2184.png]
   11-5-B. Landscaping Maintenance Requirements: All landscape elements as
defined within this Chapter located on any zoning lot shall be regularly cared
for and maintained free from any physical deterioration so as to maintain the
originally intended design character and quality, and to not become a nuisance
or hazard to any person, personal property or public or private utility,
infrastructure or improvement. The following apply to landscape maintenance:
      1.   The owner of the premises shall be responsible for the maintenance,
repair and replacement of all landscape materials, fences, steps, retaining
walls, similar landscape elements and refuse disposal areas. This shall include
proper pruning, mowing of lawns, weeding, removal of litter, fertilizing,
replacement of plants, when necessary, and the regular watering of all plants
and grass;
      2.   Any dead, unhealthy or missing plants shall be replaced within
thirty (30) days of notification by the Village, unless an extension is
permitted by the Zoning Administrator;
      3.   The Village may remove or have removed any landscape element or
portion thereof which encroaches or overhangs into any public right-of-way,
drainage and/or utility easement;
      4.   Fences and walls shall be maintained in good repair. Openings within
the barriers may be required by the Village for accessibility to an area for
necessary maintenance; and
      5.   Changes to any approved site or landscape plan shall require Village
approval in keeping with the processes specified in this Chapter.
 
