CITY OF MARENGO, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through ordinance 26-5-2 published 5-26-2026
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 (800) 445-5588
DIRECTORY OF CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OF MARENGO, ILLINOIS
MAYOR
Michael Proffitt
CITY CLERK
Stephanie Matysiewski
ALDERMEN/ALDERWOMEN
Ward 1 Michael Miller
Ward 1 Amanda Damisch
Ward 2 Michael DeSerto
Ward 2 Steve Mortensen
Ward 3 Darin Mobley
Ward 3 Matt Keenum
Ward 4 Carla Weiss
Ward 4 Bryce Rudsinski
 
OFFICES
OFFICES
City Administrator                                Derik Morefield
Finance/HR Director                               Megan Lopez
Finance/HR Clerk                                  Jennifer Ciepley
Deputy City Clerk/Accounts Payable                Marcia Pal
Utility Billing Clerk                             Christine Schulman
Public Works Director                             Chad Roscoe
Assistant to Building Department and Public Works Cassie Hendel
Code Enforcement Officer                          Marianne Wayne
Police Chief                                      Nathan Hayes
City Attorney                                     David McArdle
 
 
CEMETERY BOARD
Diane Oranger
Keri Nolen
Jeff Dietrich
 
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Marty Mohr (Chair)
Bob Keller
Vicki Hughes
Maureen Cortilet
Corey Brackmann
Robert Church
Nick Conro
 
 
FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSION
James Lohff
Amy Thiede
Ron Foley
 
 
POLICE PENSION BOARD
Paul Fritz
Dawn Wagner
Jerry Rzotkiewicz
Kyle Ruark
John Koziol
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title, amendments, numbering
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Repeal of ordinances
   
10.04   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.05   Jurisdiction
   
10.06   Responsibility for acts
   
10.07   Separability of provisions
   
10.08   Effective date
   
10.09   Copies on file
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE, AMENDMENTS, NUMBERING.
   (A)   Title. This code of ordinances may be known and cited as the Marengo
Municipal Code. Any references to “this code” or “code” herein shall also mean
the Marengo Municipal Code.
   (B)   Amendments. Any additions or amendments to this code are incorporated
in this code so that a reference to the Marengo Municipal Code includes such
additions and amendments.
   (C)   Numbering of sections. Each section number of this code shall consist
of two component parts separated by a period, the figure before the period
referring to the chapter number and the figure after the period referring to
the section within the chapter.
   (D)   Numbering additions. The decimal system shall be used for all
additions and amendments to this code. When a chapter or section is added, the
new chapter or section shall be given a decimal character.
(Prior Code, § 1.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Definitions not
specifically defined in this code shall have the meanings prescribed by the
state statutes for the same terms.
(Prior Code, § 1.02)
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven in its condition; or any vehicle that has not been
moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted; or
any unlicensed vehicle.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building the use of which is incidental to that of
the principal building and which is located on the same lot.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The chief administrative officer of the city. ADMINISTRATOR
shall also mean the Administrator’s designee.
   AIR RIFLE. Includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB
gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which impels a
projectile constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead, brass or any other hard
material with a force that is reasonably expected to cause bodily harm or
property damage.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 24 years of age or
older.
   APPLIANCES. Includes, but is not limited to, ranges, refrigerators,
dishwashers, washing machines, dryers, room air conditioners, freezers and
water heaters.
   ASTM ES 13-89. Pursuant to
Chapter 150, emergency standard performance specifications for safety covers
and labeling requirements for all covers for swimming pools, spas and hot tubs.
   BARRIER. Pursuant to
Chapter 150, a fence, wall, building wall or combination thereof which
completely surrounds the swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming
pool.
   BASEMENT. A portion of any building located partly underground but having
less than half of its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
    BOAT. Any device used or capable of being used for navigation on water.
   BOWLING ALLEY. A recreational area or facility contained within a building
and so constructed as to permit the public to engage in the recreational form
commonly known as bowling and constructed primarily for use in connection with
such recreational pursuit.
   BUILDING. Any residential or nonresidential support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or movable property of any kind, and which is permanently
affixed to the land.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Building Commissioner of the city or his or her
authorized deputy, agent or representative. The BUILDING COMMISSIONER is also
the Building Official.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having half or more than half of its clear floor to ceiling height below grade.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. An area one-half block east and one-half block
west of State Street from Grant Highway north to the first pair of Chicago &
Northwestern Railway Company tracks, or as otherwise delineated by the city
zoning map.
   CITY. The City of Marengo, Illinois.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and City Council of the City of Marengo.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of
law; or any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Marengo.
   CLUB. For the purpose of
Chapter 115, a corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent and character as may be
suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation
of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen
and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for
its members and their guests. Such CLUB shall file with the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner at the time of its application for a license pursuant to
Chapter 115 two copies of a list of names and residences of its members. Said
list shall be supplemented every four months, during the term of the license,
with the names and addresses of new members elected to the CLUB. And, provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the CLUB is
paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the CLUB or the members of the club or its guests introduced by members beyond
the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by
the members or by its board of directors or other government body out of the
general revenue of the CLUB.
   CODE, THIS CODE. The Marengo Municipal Code.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition.
   CONSTRUCTION VEHICLE. Any vehicle used in, and that is hauling, picking up
or delivering materials, equipment and related apparatus then being used in the
construction, remodeling, repair, replacement, enlargement or addition of or to
any improvement on a lawful site within the corporate limits of the city for
which a building permit has been duly issued, and is then outstanding, by the
city under the provisions of
Chapter 150.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A recreational area with buildings or structures used in
conjunction therewith for the primary use of members and their guests as the
case may be, all of which is established for recreational and entertainment
purposes and used in conjunction with recreational pursuits or games, e.g.,
golf, tennis and the like.
   COUNTY. McHenry County, Illinois.
   CRIMINAL CODE. The State Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as
amended.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty in
a civil emergency.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces or similar
property.
    DEPUTY CLERK. The duly appointed Deputy Clerk of the city.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single-family attached and detached residence and duplex.
   EASEMENT. Land specifically or generally designed for public and/or quasi-
public utilities and facilities, only, associated with requirements for
sanitary sewer, potable water, storm drainage, gas, electric, telephone, cable
television and service.
   EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of any kind or any agency or
employee representation committee or plan which included in its membership city
employees, and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing
with the city concerning grievances, wages, rates of pay, hours and conditions
of employment.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency; IEPA is the state organization;
and USEPA is the federal organization
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
material that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or
trapping; or by any other recognized legal pest elimination methods.
   FIREARM. Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a
projectile or projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or
escape of gas; excluding any pneumatic gun, spring gun or BB gun which expels a
single globular projectile not exceeding 0.18 inch in diameter.
   FIREWORKS. Any rocket, firecracker, torpedo, squib or other similar
projectile, or anything containing any substance of an explosive nature,
including, but not limited to, gun powder, gun cotton, giant powder, dynamite,
nitroglycerine, fulminate of mercury or other explosives of a similar nature
for blasting or other purposes. In addition, the definition for FIREWORKS found
in 425 ILCS 35/1, as amended, is incorporated into this code.
   FLUSH-MOUNTED SIGN. Any sign attached to or erected against any wall,
awning, canopy or marquee with the exposed face of said sign in a plane
approximately parallel to the place of the wall or similar and not projecting
more than 18 inches. Such signs shall not be painted directly on any exterior
wall.
   FREE STANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces placed in or upon the ground in a permanent manner.
   FULL BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more
than 10% of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on premises. BAR
includes, but is not limited to, taverns, clubs, nightclubs, cocktail lounges,
adult entertainment facilities and cabarets.
   GARAGE SALE. For the purpose of §
110.15, GARAGE SALES shall mean and include all sales entitled “garage sale,”
“lawn sale,” “attic sale,” “rummage sale,” “flea market sale” or any similar
casual sale of tangible personal property which is advertised by any means
whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of said sale.
   GARBAGE. Any rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion, and
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the
preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits or vegetable, and any other matter of any nature which are subject to
decay, putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor,
or, which during or after decay, may serve as breeding or feeding material for
flies or other germ-carrying insects.
   GOLF COURSE. A recreational area with or without club house facilities
primarily for the use of members and their guests or the general public as the
case may be, engaging in a form of recreation or game commonly known as golf.
   GOODS. For the purpose of §
110.15, GOODS are meant to include any goods, warehouse merchandise or other
property capable of being the object of a sale regulated in this code.
   GRANT STREET. U.S. Route 20.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public or
purposes of vehicle travel. Any street, alley or public way within the city.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed, and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in
the same building and such building or structure being provided with adequate
and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
   HOT TUB. See definition for SPA.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES (ILCS). The 1999 edition of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes and when later editions are published, the latest publication thereof.
   ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE. 65 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling unit of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   IN-GROUND POOL. See definition for SWIMMING POOL.
    INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days,
the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
      (2)   The term INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle
which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations nor to any
motor vehicles that are kept within a building when not in use, to historic
vehicles over 25 years of age, nor to a motor vehicle on the premises of a
place of business engaged in wrecking or junking of motor vehicles, nor to any
motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own power by authorization of the Chief of Police.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act, 705 ILCS 405/1-1, as
amended.
   LET. To give another person the right to occupy any portion of a building or
real estate or both. The act of LETTING shall be deemed to be a continuing act
for so long as the person given the right to occupy the premises continues to
do so. A further LETTING by any occupant or a portion of a building is, for the
purpose of this code, also a LETTING by the owner or operator of the building.
   LICENSEE. An organization, person or firm which has been issued a license,
such as to operate a raffle.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.,
as amended.
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The Mayor of the city.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years but not yet 18 years of
age.
   MOTORCYCLE. An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two or three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not
limited to, motor scooters and minibikes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor,
such as, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-
trailers, campers, go-carts, snowmobiles, amphibious craft on land, dune
buggies or racing vehicles, but not including motorcycles.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Marengo.
   MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
    NATURAL BARRIER. A non-seasonal lake, pond or stream greater than 20 feet
in width.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEIGHBORING RESIDENCE. A one-family dwelling or a single-family townhouse
not more than three stories in height situated on improved property within 500
feet of a residential swimming pool.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health
of humans or animals, or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property.
   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Any area designated pursuant to this code for the
purpose of ensuring exceptional quiet.
   NONCOMBUSTIBLE WASTE. All other waste substance not capable of incineration
or burning, including ashes, glass, metal, earthenware and the like.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living in, sleeping in or having
actual possession of a building or portion thereof.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials or substances outside of the
confines of the dwelling or buildings located on the premises.
   OPERATOR. Any person having charge, care, management or control of any
building or part thereof.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others shall have
legal or equitable title to any building, the agent of said person or any
person having management or control of the building or portion thereof,
including, but not limited to, a purchaser, mortgagee, receiver or lessee in
possession of any building or portion thereof.
   PARABOLIC OR DISH TYPE TELEVISION ANTENNA. Any circular or similar dish
shaped transmitting or receiving antenna for communications or for transmitting
or receiving television signals from a satellite.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any street, park or other
public place in the city.
    PARK or PARKING. For the purpose of Title VII, the standing of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, otherwise than when temporarily and actually engaged
in loading and unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDDLING. The selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the streets,
highways or public places of the city or from house to house, whether at one
place or from place to place, from any wagon, truck, pushcart or other vehicle
or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include the delivery of
any item previously ordered or the sale of items along delivery routes where
the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop and exhibit his or
her items. Nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation of orders by
sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is taken.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, estate, club,
association, not-for-profit organization, society, taxing body or corporation.
As applied to partnerships or associations, the word includes the partners or
members thereof; as applied to corporations, it includes the officers, agents
or employees thereof who are responsible for the act referred to. The singular
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular. The masculine gender
includes the feminine and neuter genders.
   PLUMBING. Gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water heating equipment, water
pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, wells, septic tanks, catch basins, drains, vents and any similar
supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   POPULATION. The population determined by the most recent official federal,
state or city census.
   POWERED MODEL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or landborne
plane, vessel or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons, including,
but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
   PREMISES. Any or part of a lot, plot or parcel or tract of land, including
the buildings and structures, or part of a building or structure, thereon.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street of
highway.
   PUBLIC EMPLOYEE or EMPLOYEE. Any individual employed by the city but the
term shall not include elected officials, members of boards, authorities and
commissions, management employees who are involved directly in the
determination of policy or who responsibly directed implementation thereof,
supervisors, or any employee who acts as a representative of the city and any
employee who, in the interest of the city has access to confidential collective
bargaining information or who, as determined by the City Council, is a
confidential employee.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a government entity.
    PUBLIC SAFETY EMERGENCY. Any condition wherein the service offered by a
public utility or a unit of government has been interrupted, curtailed or
damaged, an immediate, substantial and harmful threat to the public health and
safety exists and will continue if such condition is not immediately repaired.
Without limiting the generality thereof, a threat to the public health and
safety includes damage to telegraphic, telephonic, heating, cooling, lighting,
power, electrical, water, sewerage, oil or gas equipment facilities, machinery
or property of a hospital or other building providing inpatient healthcare
services, a school, a nursing home or a government building.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a government entity.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any corporation, company, association, joint stock company
or association, firm, partnership or individual, their lessees, trustees or
receivers appointed by any court whatsoever that owns, controls, operates or
manages, with the state, directly or indirectly, for public use, any plant,
equipment or property used or to be used for or in connection with, or owns or
controls any franchise, license, permit or right to engage in:
      (1)   The transmission of telegraph or telephone messages between points
within the state;
      (2)   The production, storage, transmission, sale, delivery or furnishing
of heat, cold, light, power, electricity or water;
      (3)   The conveyance of oil or gas by pipeline; and
      (4)   The disposal of sewerage.
   PUBLIC WORKS. The Public Works Department of the city.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. A line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that
owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses and/or vehicles with “RV” license plates. A RECREATION VEHICLE
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: travel trailer, pick-up
camper, motorized home, camping trailer.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as provided in this code, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
    RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   RESIDENTIAL. Situated on the premises of a detached single or a one-family
townhouse, not more than three stories in height.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used and maintained, advertised and held
out to the public as a place where meals actually are served and regularly
served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided with
adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having
employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and
serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A type of operation in which refuse is deposited by plan
in a pit or excavation of open land, is compacted by force applied by
mechanical equipment and then is covered by a layer of earth, ashes or suitable
covering material to a depth of at least two feet.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwaters,
surface waters and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from business buildings,
residences, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwaters, surface waters and stormwaters as may naturally be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory
   SIGN and/or SIGNAGE. Any surface, object, device, display, structure, fabric
or advertising symbol which may or may not contain words, figures, letters,
printing, pictures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, projected
images, forms shaped to resemble any human, animal, product or object, or
combinations thereof, which is calculated by any means to direct or attract the
attention of the public and used to advertise, announce, identify, describe,
illustrate or display an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, activity, event, place or location, which may be constructed
from material of any kind or character whatsoever, and placed on the ground or
on any pole, building, structure, wall or thing whatsoever. The term PLACED, as
used in this definition, shall include erecting, locating, constructing,
posting, painting, printing, nailing, tying, gluing, carving, molding, weaving
or other fastening, attaching, affixing or making visible directly or
indirectly, in any manner whatsoever. For the purposes of this definition, the
use of terms, including, but not limited to, attach, affix, place, locate,
display, erect and construct shall be deemed to be synonymous. A SIGN shall be
deemed to be an accessory use to a principal use.
   SIGN FACE. The surface or surfaces used for the display of a sign message as
seen from any one direction, including the area of copy and all borders, but
not the structural or framing supports lying outside the limits of such
borders. Within this meaning, a single-face sign shall not have any copy on its
reverse side, or its reverse side is not visible; a double-faced sign shall
have the faces placed back to back; and a multi-faced sign has more than two
visible faces, or is erected in a V-shape, or is otherwise deemed to be
irregular.
   SIGN, GARAGE SALE. Any temporary sign used in residential zoning districts
to advertise the sale of used, unwanted household goods.
   SIGN, HOME CONSTRUCTION. Any temporary sign used in residential zoning
districts to advertise the construction of a dwelling on a specific lot during
the time of its construction.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. Any sign attached or otherwise affixed to a wall of a
building that indicates the name of the occupant of the premises and/or the
common address of the premises, limited to the name of the occupant, display of
address numerals and street name. The placement of address numerals themselves
on a building or dwelling, or mailbox and mailbox post, shall not be deemed a
NAME PLATE SIGN.
   SIGN, NEW DEVELOPMENT MARKETING. Any temporary sign which advertises an
impending development or subdivision within the corporate limits of the city
that has received final plat approval to begin construction and is a
development or subdivision under active marketing or construction with lots or
dwelling units remaining to be sold.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. Any temporary sign displayed in conjunction with an
official election or referendum, used on behalf of candidates for elected
public office or to advocate a position on referenda.
   SIGN, RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE. Any temporary sign used to offer the sale,
lease, sublease or rental of real property in a residential zoning district.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous square or
rectangular perimeter enclosing the extreme limit of a sign, but in no case
shall this perimeter pass through or between any adjacent elements of the same.
See also SIGN FACE.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign designed, constructed or erected for display in
such a manner so as to be for a limited and usually fixed duration of time,
relating to an activity, event or circumstance that by its nature is ordinarily
of a limited duration.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
    SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purpose of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain information on the background, occupation,
economic status, social status, religious status, political status, attitude,
viewpoints, occupants of a residence, telephone numbers, address furnishings or
the like of another person for the purpose of compiling information as raw data
or refined data into a document, record book or directory to be sold or to be
used wholly or in part for a commercial purpose; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts for contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid license, as provided in
Chapter 112, and which license is in the possession of the solicitor on his or
her person while engaged in soliciting.
   SPA, PORTABLE, NON-PORTABLE HOT TUB. A non-permanent structure intended for
recreational bathing, in which all controls, water heating and water
circulating equipment are an integral part of the product.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whisky,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STATE STREET. State Route 23
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries stormwaters and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.
      (1)   The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public or purposes
of vehicle travel.
      (2)   For the purpose of Title VII, the portion of the roadway or highway
that is improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive
of the berm or shoulder.
    STRIKE. Any concerted action in failing to report for duty, the willful
absence from one’s position, the stoppage of work (including a stoppage by
reason of the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement), the
interruption or interference with operation of the city, slow-downs or the
abstinence in whole or in part from the full, faithful and proper performance
of the duties of employment.
   SUPERVISOR. Any individual who has authority to recommend hiring, firing,
transferring, suspending, promoting and discharging employees; those who have
authority to assign employees; and those who direct work, as well as adjust
compensation of employees.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, installed, furnished or provided by and under the
control of the owner or operator at its own expense.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, aboveground
and on-ground swimming pools, hot tubs and spas.
   SWIMMING POOL, INDOOR. A swimming pool which is totally contained within a
structure and surrounded on all four sides by walls of said structure.
   SWIMMING POOL, OUTDOOR. Any swimming pool which is not an indoor pool.
   TAXICAB. For the purpose of
Chapter 117, any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but not operating on
a fixed route.
   TELEGRAPH STREET. State Route 176.
   TEMPORARY PARKING. With respect to §
71.03, the stationary placement of any mobile home, boat, trailer or recreation
vehicle for a continuous period of less than 48 hours.
   THROUGH VEHICLE. Any vehicle that traverses the roads of the city from the
point of entrance to the point of exit without providing a legitimate service,
as described in §
72.01, to a lawful location within the corporate limits of the city during the
course of such traverse, other than a public utility vehicle engaged in a
public service emergency.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling having one or more common wall with
another single-family dwelling, oriented so all exits open directly to the
outside.
   TRAILER. With respect to §
71.03, every vehicle designed or utilized for the transportation of any boat,
auto, snowmobile and the like, which does not have motor power but is designed
to be drawn by another vehicle.
   TREASURER. The City Treasurer of the City of Marengo.
    VEHICLE.
      (1)   A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
      (2)   Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as
defined in the State Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40/1-1).
   UNFAIR PRACTICE. Any practice prohibited by §§
31.45 through
31.51.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as defined herein.
   ZONE CODE. The zoning ordinance of the city, as amended.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance of the city, as amended.
(Prior Code, Appendix A) (Ord. 02-8-3, passed - -; Ord. 09-8-5, passed - -)
§ 10.03 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All general ordinances or parts previously adopted by the Mayor and
City Council inconsistent with those included in this code are repealed, and
the following are specifically continued in full force and effect:
      (1)   Ordinances authorizing contracts or the issue of municipal notes or
bonds;
      (2)   Ordinances levying taxes or making special assessments;
      (3)   Ordinances budgeting and appropriating funds or establishing
salaries;
      (4)   Ordinances granting franchises or rights to corporations;
      (5)   Ordinances relating to the establishment, dedication, opening,
grading, naming, improvement, altering, railroad crossings, widening or
vacating of any streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or public grounds;
      (6)   Ordinances respecting the annexation of territory to the city, or
the conveyance or acceptance or real property or easements in real property;
      (7)   Ordinances authorizing or relating to particular public
improvement;
      (8)   Ordinances relating to zoning and subdivisions; and
      (9)   Any other special ordinances not in conflict with the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance
as those of existing ordinances, are continuations of such ordinances and not
new enactments. Any act done, offense committed or right accruing or acquired,
or liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior hereto shall not
be affected, but may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as
fully and to the same extent as if the repeal had not been effected.
(Prior Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.04 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance previously repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinance does not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1.04)
§ 10.05 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code applies to acts
performed within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Provisions of this code also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law where the law confers
power on the city to regulate such particular acts outside the corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.06 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACTS.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by this code,
whether he or she directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids or
abets in its commission, may be prosecuted, and, on conviction, is punishable
as if he or she had directly committed such act.
(Prior Code, § 1.08)
§ 10.07 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 1.09)
§ 10.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code of ordinances shall take effect immediately upon its passage.
Publication shall be in book form under the authority of the Mayor and City
Council, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.10)
§ 10.09 COPIES ON FILE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept available at City Hall for public
inspection or purchase during City Hall business hours. The cost of said code
shall be determined from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 1.11)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Standard penalty. Unless another penalty is specifically provided by
this code for violation of any particular provision, section or chapter, any
person violating any provision of this code, or any rule or regulation adopted
or issued in pursuance thereof, or any provision of any code adopted herein by
reference, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $25
nor more than $750 and prosecution fees if allowable.
   (B)   Commitment. The person upon whom any fine or penalty is imposed for
violation of any provision of this code or any ordinance of the city, upon
order of the court before whom the conviction is had, may be committed to the
county or state jail, as provided by law, or to any other place provided by
statute.
   (C)   Each day of violation. Each act of violation and each day upon which a
violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Applicability. The penalty provided by this section applies to the
amendment of any section of this code or a code adopted herein by reference
whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
   (E)   Reference to sections. Reference to a section of this code shall be
understood also to refer to and include the penalty section relating thereto,
unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (F)   Failure of officers to perform duties. The failure of any officer or
employee of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this code shall
not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed for violation of
this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided in the section creating
the duty.
   (G)   Collection. In the event any fee, including, but not limited to, those
relating to retained personnel, fines, penalties, repair, abatement,
restitution and reimbursement, found in any section of the code that is due the
city and is not paid, the cost of collecting said fee shall be added to the
fee. Collection costs shall include, but not be limited to, prosecution and
attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 1.06)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   USE OF CITY FACILITIES AND PROPERTY
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
36.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
      
37.   SCHEDULE OF FINES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Government of city; wards
   
30.02   Election, terms and powers
   
30.03   Meetings
   
30.04   Presiding officer
   
30.05   Quorum
   
30.06   Order of business; sergeant-at-arms
   
30.07   City Council committees
   
30.08   Rules of order and procedure
   
Appendix A: Ward Map
§ 30.01 GOVERNMENT OF CITY; WARDS.
   (A)   City Council. The city shall be governed by a City Council which shall
consist of a Mayor and eight aldermen. The Mayor shall be elected at large and
two aldermen shall be elected from each ward.
   (B)   Election wards established. The city is divided into four wards,
bounded as follows.
      (1)   Ward 1 boundaries. Beginning at the west city limit at the Union
Pacific Railroad tracks, heading east to North Sponable Street as it dead ends
at the railroad tracks, then south along Sponable to West Washington Street,
then east on Washington to South Ford Street, then south on Ford to West Grant
Highway (USH 20), then east to State Street (STH 23), then south on State
Street (STH 23) to the city limit; and all property within the city limits
south of Pleasant Grove Road/Coral Road, regardless of which side of State
Street (STH 23) the property is located.
      (2)   Ward 2 boundaries. Beginning at the south city limit on State
Street (STH 23) north of Coral Road, heading north along the highway (STH 23)
and city limits east of the highway (STH 23) to Grant Highway (USH 20), then
east on Grant Highway (USH 20) to the east city limit.
      (3)   Ward 3 boundaries. Beginning at the east city limit at Grant
Highway (USH 20), heading west to East Street, then north on East Street to
Greenlee Street, then east to Grace Street, then north on Grace to Van Buren
Street, then further north (at jog of Grace Street west and north at Van Buren)
along the rear property lines (and ditch line) of those properties facing Grace
Street on the east to Telegraph Street (STH 176), then east on Telegraph (STH
176) to Kishwaukee Street, then north on Kishwaukee Street to Fifth Avenue,
then west on Fifth to East Street, then north on East to Eighth Avenue, then
further north along the east property line of 508 Eighth Avenue to the rear
property line of the those properties facing Eighth Avenue on the north, then
west along those property lines facing Eighth Avenue on the north to the east
property line of the sewage treatment plant owned by the city, then north along
the east property line of the city sewage treatment plant to the city limit.
      (4)   Ward 4 boundaries. Beginning at the west city limit at the Union
Pacific Railroad Tracks, heading east to North Sponable Street as it dead ends
at the railroad tracks, then south along Sponable to West Washington Street,
then east on Washington to South Ford Street, then south on Ford to West Grant
Highway (USH 20), then east to East Street, then north on East Street to
Greenlee Street, then east to Grace Street, then north on Grace to Van Buren
Street, then further north (at jog of Grace Street west and north at Van Buren)
along the rear property lines (and ditch line) of those properties facing Grace
Street from the east to Telegraph Street (STH 176), then west on Telegraph (STH
176) to Kishwaukee Street, then north on Kishwaukee Street to Fifth Avenue,
then west on Fifth to East Street, then north on East to Eighth Avenue, then
further north along the east property line of 508 Eighth Avenue to the rear
property line of those properties facing Eighth Avenue on the north, then west
along those property lines facing Eighth Avenue on the north to the east
property line of the sewage treatment plant owned by the city, then north along
the east property line of the city sewage treatment plant to the city limit.
(Prior Code, § 2.01) (Ord. 14-9-1, passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   City ward map, see
Chapter 30, Appendix A
§ 30.02 ELECTION, TERMS AND POWERS.
   (A)   The members of the City Council shall be elected and serve for a four-
year term, and until their successors are elected and qualified, as provided by
law. The term of office for each elected member shall begin at the first
regular or special meeting following receipt of the official election results.
   (B)   The powers of the City Council shall be purely legislative (the
preparation and enactment of laws and administrative rules) except as may
otherwise be provided by any other ordinance herein, act or by any article of
the state municipal code. The City Council shall approve for payment all
expenses and liabilities of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.02)
§ 30.03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. All regular meetings of the City Council shall be
held on the second and fourth Monday of every month in the City Hall, 132 East
Prairie Street, Marengo, Illinois, at 7:00 p.m. If a regular meeting falls on a
legal holiday, the meeting shall not take place but will be scheduled as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.03)
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the City Council may be called
by the Mayor or any three members of the City Council, provided that written
notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the City Council no
less than 48 hours prior thereto, the following accomplished.
      (1)   Written notice is given to all members of the public body by
delivering to their residence a notice of the meeting which shall include the
date, time, place and subject matter of the special meeting. Minutes of the
special meeting shall indicate how notice was provided to the members.
      (2)   Notice of the meeting shall be posted at the location of the
meeting at the City Hall and at the police station. Said posted notice shall
indicate the date, time, place and subject matter of the special meeting.
      (3)   Notification of the special meeting shall be given to all news
media requesting notification as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2.04)
   (C)   Open Meetings Act.
      (1)   All city meetings shall comply with the State Open Meetings Act (5
ILCS 120/1 et seq.).
      (2)   Any member of the City Council may attend, participate and vote at
any meeting of the City Council via electronic means. To qualify, a physical
quorum of the City Council must be present for the meeting, and the member must
make prior logistical arrangements with the Clerk or Mayor before the meeting
and assert one of the following four reasons why he or she is unable to
physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village;
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency;
or
         (d)   Unexpected childcare obligations.
(Prior Code, § 2.08)
   (D)   Electronic attendance. Notwithstanding the provisions above, in the
event of a disaster declaration by the Governor, any open or closed meeting of
any city body may be conducted by audio or video conference, without the
physical presence of a quorum of the members, so long as the requirements of
the Open Meetings Act (as may be amended) for such meetings have been met.
(Ord. 19-12-1, passed - -; Ord. 23-03-2, passed 3-13-2023; Ord. 23-9-1, passed
9-11-2023)
§ 30.04 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the regular and special meetings
of the City Council, and of other meetings when the City Council convenes as a
Committee of the whole. In the absence of the Mayor, the Clerk shall open the
meeting, and the temporary Chairperson shall be selected pursuant to §
31.01(D).
(Prior Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.05 QUORUM.
   The presence of five members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum,
but no ordinance shall pass except upon the affirmative vote of a majority of
all elected members of the City Council, or according to the Open Meetings Act.
(Prior Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.06 ORDER OF BUSINESS; SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business at all meetings of the City
Council shall be determined by the Mayor.
   (B)   Sergeant at arms. The Chief of Police shall attend every meeting of
the City Council and shall act as Sergeant at Arms. In the absence of the Chief
of Police, the City Council shall appoint a responsible person to act as
Sergeant at Arms. The Sergeant at Arms is authorized to prevent any unlawful
disturbance or demonstration at such meetings, and shall provide for the good
order of the meeting room prior to every meeting of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.07)
§ 30.07 CITY COUNCIL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees established.
      (1)   There is hereby established the General Administration Committee,
the Community Development Committee and the Transportation Committee of the
City Council. Annually, the Mayor shall appoint four aldermen to each committee
and the Chairperson of each committee. Matters referred to the General
Administration Committee shall include community events, finance, grants,
insurance, legislation, personnel, personnel policies and procedures, police
and public safety and such matters as may be assigned to the Committee from
time to time by the Mayor. Matters referred to the Community Development
Committee shall include building, public properties, public works, subdivision,
zoning and such matters as may be assigned to the Committee from time to time
by the Mayor. Matters referred to the Transportation Committee shall include
long-term multi-modal transportation planning, parking matters, road network
related items that affect city transportation, pedestrian safety, traffic
studies and other matters that may be assigned to the Committee from time to
time by the Mayor.
      (2)   All meetings shall be held pursuant to the Open Meetings Act. The
Chairperson shall be responsible for the minutes of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2.09)
   (B)   Special committee assignments.
      (1)   The Mayor may appoint a special committee to conduct
investigations, make detailed studies of pending proposals or projects and
deliver specific findings to the City Council for final action.
      (2)   The findings of any special committee shall be reduced to a written
report. On presentation to and acceptance of the committee’s report to the City
Council, the special committee shall be disbanded.
      (3)   Any special committee must conform to the requirements of the Open
Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.) by posting a public notice of all committee
meetings where two or more elected officials are in attendance. Minutes must be
taken at all special committee meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2.10)
(Ord. 07-6-4, passed - -)
§ 30.08 RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meeting of the City Council and the committees thereof.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   Presiding officer, duties of the presiding officer. The presiding
officer shall preserve order and decorum and may speak to points of order in
preference to other members and shall decide all questions of order subject to
appeal. The presiding officer may speak to matters being considered by the City
Council without relinquishing the Chair. In case of any disturbances or
disorderly conduct, the presiding officer shall have the power to require the
City Council room to be cleared.
      (2)   Members, duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting
the question, no member shall walk across or out of the City Council chambers.
All members, previous to speaking or making a motion, shall address themselves
to the presiding officer and shall not proceed with their remarks until
recognized and named by the Chair. They shall confine themselves to the
question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the
motives of any other member’s argument or vote. When two or more members
address the Chair at the same time, the presiding officer shall name the member
who is first to speak.
   (B)   Public comment at meetings. Members of the public are invited and
permitted to speak at any public, open meeting of the City Council subject to
the following rules.
      (1)   Individuals wishing to be heard on an item that is not on the
agenda may be recognized by the Mayor or Chairperson during the public comment
portion of each meeting which will generally be held as one of the initial
items of business on the agenda but may, by a majority vote of the members of
the public body present at a particular meeting, be moved to a different point
on the agenda for that meeting.
      (2)   Individuals wishing to be heard on an item that is included in the
agenda will be provided an opportunity to speak by the Mayor or Chairperson
during the consideration of that item.
      (3)   Public comment may be restricted to no more than two minutes for
each individual speaker. The Mayor or Chairperson may permit additional
comment, in his or her discretion, taking into account the number of persons
wishing to be heard on a matter and the amount of business requiring attention.
      (4)   Members of the public may be asked to avoid repeating comments that
have already been made, although they may be given the opportunity to indicate
that they agree or disagree with an earlier speaker.
      (5)   Members of the public will be required to step forward to the
podium and to identify themselves for the record. Members may be asked but are
not required to provide an address for the record.
      (6)   The Mayor or Chairperson shall require that order and decorum be
maintained at public meetings. This includes prohibiting outbursts from the
public or other behavior that is threatening, disorderly or disruptive to the
public business. The Mayor or Chairperson may eject from a public meeting any
person who, in the Mayor or Chairperson’s sole opinion, disrupts the order and
decorum of the meeting or otherwise violates the rules of this section.
      (7)   Public comment shall be restricted to the portions of meetings
which are required to be open to the public under the Open Meetings Act.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow public access to or public
comment at closed sessions or any other meeting of public officials which is
not required to be open to the public under the Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   Presentation of new business and deferment. Upon the request of any
two City Council members present, any report of a committee of the City Council
shall be deferred (for final action thereon) to the next regular meeting of the
City Council after the report is made.
   (D)   Debate. No member shall speak more than once on the same question,
except by unanimous consent, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the
proponent of the matter under consideration or the Chairperson of the committee
whose report is under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right
to open and close debate. No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any
one time, except by consent of the City Council. In closing debate on any
questions, as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes,
except by special consent of the City Council.
   (E)   Call to order. A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall
thereupon discontinue speaking and take their seat, and the order of ruling by
the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right of appeal.
   (F)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon or abstain at the time that his or her name
is first called. A failure to vote shall be counted as an abstention and will
count in the manner established by law. Any member required to abstain on a
matter due to conflict of interest shall so declare.
   (G)   Ordinances.
      (1)   Style of ordinances. The style of all ordinances shall be “BE IT
ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Marengo, McHenry County,
Illinois,” as provided by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-2.
      (2)   “Yea” and “Nay” vote. The yeas and nays shall be taken on the
passage of all ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability
against the city, or for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the City Council. Such vote
shall be entered on the journal of the proceedings, as is provided by statute.
      (3)   Record of ordinances. The Clerk shall record, in an ordinance book
used for such purpose, all ordinances passed by the corporate authorities.
      (4)   Publication. All ordinances imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture or making any appropriation, shall be published as
required by statute, either in a newspaper or in pamphlet form, in which case
the ordinance in its pamphlet form shall be displayed for not less than ten
days in a public place in the City Hall.
      (5)   Time of taking effect. No ordinance that must be published to
comply with the foregoing section shall go into effect until ten days after it
is so published unless a statement of the urgency of the ordinance is contained
in it and it achieves passage by a two-thirds vote of the members of the
corporate authorities then holding office. In all other cases, the ordinances
shall go into effect upon the passage thereof, as provided by statute, even
though the operation of the ordinance may not take effect until a later date.
   (H)   Adoption of “Robert’s Rules of Order.” The rules of parliamentary
practice contained in the latest published edition of “Robert’s Rules of Order”
shall govern the City Council in all cases to which they are applicable and in
which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of this City Council or
the statutes or laws of the state.
   (I)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended, repealed, altered or amended by a two-thirds vote of the
corporate authorities then holding office.
   (J)   Censure of members; expulsion of members. Any member of the corporate
authorities acting or appearing in a lewd, disorderly or disgraceful manner, or
who uses opprobrious, obscene or insulting language to or about any member of
the corporate authorities, or who does not obey the order of the Chair, shall
be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the corporate authorities and, in
addition, may be fined not to exceed $100 for each such occurrence. With the
concurrence of two-thirds of the corporate authorities elected, the corporate
authorities may expel a member, but not a second time for the same offense.
(Prior Code, § 2.12) (Ord. 17-6-2, passed - -)
APPENDIX A: WARD MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1618.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Officials
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   City Clerk
   
31.03   City Treasurer
   
31.04   City Attorney
   
31.05   City Administrator
City Administration
   
31.20   Salaries of officials
   
31.21   Employee benefit plans
   
31.22   Bonds of officers
   
31.23   Officers and employees of the city
   
31.24   City records
   
31.25   State Municipal Retirement Fund
   
31.26   Corporate seal
   
31.27   Fiscal year
   
31.28   City datum, bench mark
   
31.29   Indemnification
   
31.30   Paid leave rights
Code of Ethics
   
31.45   Purpose and policy
   
31.46   Definitions
   
31.47   Prohibited political activities
   
31.48   Gift ban
   
31.49   Ethics Administrator
   
31.50   Ethics Commission
   
31.51   Distribution of Code of Ethics
 
   
31.99   Penalty
**** OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.01 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election and term. The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and
shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, as provided by
law.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be the Mayor of the City Council and shall preside
at properly called meetings of the City Council. He or she shall devote to the
duties of the office whatever time the faithful discharge thereof may require.
The Mayor at all times may examine and inspect the books, records and papers of
any agent, employee or officer of the city. The Mayor shall perform all the
duties which are prescribed by law, including city ordinances, and shall take
care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
      (2)   The Mayor, from time to time, may, annually, give the City Council
information relative to the affairs of the city, and may recommend for its
consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
   (C)   Appointment of officers. The Mayor shall have the power and authority
to appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all
officers of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided
for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in like
manner.
   (D)   Mayor Pro Tem. During any temporary absence or disability of the
Mayor, the City Council shall select one of its own as Mayor Pro Tem, who shall
possess the powers and authority of the Mayor as provided by law and by
ordinance.
   (E)   Emergencies. In the event of an accident, disaster or other
circumstance creating a public emergency, the Mayor may award contracts, make
purchases and incur other obligations of the city for the purpose of meeting
said emergency, up to $500. In the event such expenditure is for any claim
against the city, a signed waiver shall be required from the party making the
claim at the time of payment. As soon as practical, the Mayor shall file with
the City Council a written statement of such emergency, the necessity for such
action and an itemized account of all expenditures or obligations incurred.
   (F)   Acting Mayor. In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the
City Council may appoint one of its own as the acting Mayor to serve until the
vacancy is filled as provided by law.
   (G)   Emergency interim executive.
      (1)   Pursuant to the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act (5 ILCS
275/1 et seq.), the following officers are designated as the emergency interim
successors to the office of Mayor in the following order:
         (a)   The alderman with the highest number of years in office;
         (b)   The alderman with the second highest number of years in office;
and
         (c)   The alderman with the third highest number of years in office.
      (2)   The powers and duties of the emergency interim successor shall be
pursuant to the Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act.
   (H)   Bond.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the Mayor shall execute
a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by law and by
ordinance, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the
office. The city shall pay the premium on such bond.
      (2)   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal
occasions and receptions. In the Mayor’s absence or inability to attend any
such function, the City Council may select any other city officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 3.01)
§ 31.02 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Election and term. The City Clerk (“Clerk”) shall be elected (or
appointed if a vacancy occurs in the office of City Clerk) and shall serve a
four-year term, and until a successor is elected and qualified as provided by
law.
   (B)   General duties, oath, bond. The Clerk shall have all powers and
perform all duties provided by the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
city. The Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, take and
subscribe the usual oath thereof and execute a bond in such amount and with
such sureties as may be required by law or by ordinance, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the Clerk’s duties. The cost of the bond shall be borne
by the city.
   (C)   Duties. The Clerk shall, in addition to the duties imposed by law,
perform the following duties:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the corporate authorities and keep a full
and accurate record of their proceedings;
      (2)   Record all ordinances passed by the City Council, in a suitable
book or books kept for that purpose. At the foot of the record for each
ordinance there shall be a note of the date of the passage, approval and
publication thereof, which record memorandum or certified copy thereof shall be
evidence of the passage and publication of such legal ordinance for all
purposes. The original of all ordinances passed by the City Council shall be
filed with the Clerk;
      (3)   Deliver to the Mayor all ordinances or resolutions to be approved
or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor;
      (4)   Maintain custody of and retain possession of the corporate seal of
the city and to affix the same to all papers and documents when required;
      (5)   Have custody of and safely keep and preserve in the Clerk’s office
all papers, books, records, maps, documents and effects of every description
belonging to the city and not in actual use and possession of other city
officers. To deliver upon demand any of the aforesaid articles, when not needed
for immediate use to any officer of the city having a right to them. Upon his
or her removal or resignation or the expiration of the term of office, to
deliver all of such effects to the successor in the office of the Clerk;
      (6)   Sign and keep a record of all licenses and permits issued by and on
behalf of the city and the applications therefor that are not the
responsibility of any other officer or official;
      (7)   File and keep in the Clerk’s office the original of all ordinances
passed or a pamphlet thereof when the same are published in pamphlet form. When
any ordinance is published in a newspaper, to secure from the publisher thereof
and attach to such ordinance a certificate of such publication;
      (8)   Prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other official
documents required to be issued under the laws and ordinances of the city and
to affix the corporate seal thereto. In like manner to attest all deeds for the
sale of real estate conveyed by the city, unless otherwise provided by special
ordinance; and
      (9)   Shall attest the signature of the Mayor to any and all proceedings
of the City Council.
   (D)   Absence. In case the Clerk is absent from any regular or special
meeting, the Deputy Clerk, if any, shall act as Clerk Pro Tem. In the absence
of both the Clerk and Deputy Clerk, the Mayor may appoint one of the aldermen
as Clerk Pro Tem; such appointment shall not prohibit such alderman from acting
in the capacity of Trustee also.
   (E)   Failure to perform duties. It shall be unlawful for the Clerk to
knowingly and willfully destroy any of the records of the city or knowingly or
willfully omit or fail to perform any of the duties of office.
   (F)   Salary. The annual salary of the Clerk shall be that sum found in §
31.20(C).
   (G)   Deputy Clerk. Subject to the advice and consent of the Mayor and City
Council, the Clerk may appoint one Deputy Clerk, who need not be a resident of
the city. Because the Clerk’s position is part-time, said appointment should be
a full-time employee of the city. When performing the duties of Deputy Clerk,
compensation shall be at the hourly rate paid to the city employee. The Deputy
Clerk shall report to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3.02) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.03 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Creation of office and appointment. There is hereby created the office
of City Treasurer (“Treasurer”), an executive office of the city. The Treasurer
shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. The
Treasurer shall report to the Mayor and City Administrator.
   (B)   Duties. The Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Shall receive all money paid in to the city, either directly or
from other city officers, and shall make out all checks of the city and pay out
city funds only on vouchers, orders or checks properly signed by the Mayor and
any one of either the Administrator, Treasurer or Clerk; verifying that the
signatures are authentic or hand-stamped by the individual whose name is
represented. Signatory priority shall be as stated herein. In the event there
is a vacancy in the office of Administrator, the City Administrator’s assistant
is authorized to sign checks;
      (2)   Shall deposit the city funds in such legal depositories as may be
designated by the City Council by resolution or ordinance, and shall keep the
city funds separate and distinct from his or her own funds and any others with
the city funds, and he or she shall not make private or personal use of the
city funds. Depositories designated by the City Council are: First National
Bank of Marengo, Marengo; First National Bank of Chicago, Marengo; Harris Bank
Marengo, Marengo; Prairie State Bank, Marengo; and the Illinois Funds,
Springfield;
      (3)   Shall keep and maintain accurate books and records of account
showing all moneys received by him or her, the purpose for which such money was
paid out, and shall keep a record showing at all times the financial condition
of the city, and shall make monthly reports to the City Council showing the
funds received and disbursed during the month, and shall make an annual report
to the Council between May 1 and May 10 of each fund showing the total amount
of all receipts and expenditures of the city, and showing all of his or her
transactions as Treasurer during the preceding year;
      (4)   Shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed with
the Treasurer or paid by the Treasurer, and of all vouchers, as provided by law
or by ordinance;
      (5)   From time to time, the Treasurer may invest city funds not
immediately necessary to meet city obligations in such depositories or in such
securities as the Treasurer may deem in the best interest of the city, provided
however, that at the next regular meeting of the Mayor and City Council, the
Treasurer shall request ratification of the action in making any investment;
and
      (6)   In addition, the Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may
be required by law or by ordinance.
   (C)   Bond. Before entering upon the duties of office, the Treasurer shall
execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by law
and by ordinance, conditioned upon the city against any loss due to any neglect
of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer. The city shall pay the
premium of such bond.
(Prior Code, § 3.03) (Ord. 08-9-1, passed - -)
§ 31.04 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office and appointment. There is hereby created the office
of City Attorney, an executive office of the city. The City Attorney shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The City Attorney need not be a resident nor a qualified elector of the city.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall
render advice upon all legal questions affecting the city whenever requested to
do so by the Mayor, Administrator, Chief of Police or upon authorization of the
City Council. Upon the request of the Mayor or the City Council, the City
Attorney shall reduce legal advice opinions to writing.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or in equity to which the city may be a part, or in which the
city may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of
the city on behalf of the city or in the capacity of such person as an officer
of the city.
      (3)   The City Attorney shall act to enforce in full all judgments,
decrees or orders rendered or entered in favor of the city, and to carry out to
completion all special assessment and condemnation proceedings as directed by
the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   Bond. The City Attorney shall not be required to furnish bond before
entering upon the duties of the office.
(Prior Code, § 3.04)
§ 31.05 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Council is hereby authorized to employ a City
Administrator (“Administrator”). Such Administrator shall be retained and
removed by the Mayor and City Council voting jointly. The Administrator need
not be a resident or a qualified elector of the city. The city may contract for
the services of the Administrator.
   (B)   Compensation. Compensation of the Administrator shall be as determined
by the City Council.
   (C)   Duties. The Administrator shall perform all duties assigned to him or
her by the Mayor and City Council. Except for the Chief of Police, all city
employees shall report to the Administrator.
   (D)   Bond.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her position, the
Administrator shall execute a bond in the amount of $100,000 and with such
sureties as may be required by law and by ordinance, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the Administrator’s duties and to indemnify the city
against any loss due to any neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the
Administrator.
      (2)   The bond of the premium for said bond shall be borne by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.05)
**** CITY ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 31.20 SALARIES OF OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Aldermen or alderwomen (“Council member”). The city shall pay each
Council member a salary of $3,600 per fiscal year, to be paid in equal monthly
installments. Council members shall be given the option to participate, at
their own cost, in various insurance and benefit plans offered to city
employees.
   (B)   Mayor. The city shall pay the Mayor $10,000 per fiscal year, to be
paid in equal monthly installments. As additional compensation, the Mayor shall
be given the option to participate, at his or her own cost, in various
insurance and benefit plans offered to city employees.
   (C)   Clerk. The city shall pay the Clerk a salary of $3,600 per fiscal
year, to be paid in equal monthly installments. As additional compensation, the
Clerk shall be given the option to participate, at his or her own cost, in
various insurance and benefit plans offered to city employees.
   (D)   Liquor Commissioner. The city shall pay the Liquor Commissioner $2,000
per fiscal year, to be paid in equal monthly installments.
   (E)   Treasurer. The city shall pay the Treasurer $2,000 per fiscal year, to
be paid in equal monthly installments.
(Prior Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 00-11-2, passed - -; Ord. 05-10-1, passed - -; Ord.
08-9-5, passed - -; Ord. 20-9-2, passed - -; Ord. 24-9-1, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 31.21 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the city that the city’s elected officials
are valuable public servants and should be entitled to participate, at their
own expense and without expenditure of city funds, in the insurance and
benefits plans offered to city employees.
   (B)   Exercise of option. Any elected official taking office after the April
2009 municipal elections may, within 30 days of taking office, elect to
participate in any insurance or benefit plan offered generally to city
employees. The exercise of this option must be made by notifying the
Administrator in writing. After 30 days of taking office, the elected official
may only opt in or opt out of the benefit plans as practicable in the
discretion of the Administrator.
   (C)   Calculation of cost.
      (1)   Within seven days of an elected official taking office, the
Administrator shall notify the elected official of:
         (a)   His or her right to participate in employee benefit plans at
cost; and
         (b)   The available plans and the annual premium for each.
      (2)   If no annual premium is available, the proper periodic premium
shall be indicated.
   (D)   Permitted plans. Elected officials shall be entitled to participate in
the following plans, if available to city employees, and these plans only, at
their own expense and at the marginal cost thereof as if the participating
elected official was an additional employee:
      (1)   Vision insurance;
      (2)   Dental insurance; and
      (3)   Life insurance.
   (E)   Payment for participation. Any elected official who elects to
participate in a plan under this section shall tender the full annual premium
to the Administrator. If there is no premium, the total periodic premiums for
one year shall be tendered.
   (F)   No payment by city. Under no circumstances shall the city pay for any
premium, deductible or other cost under insurance or benefit plans for an
elected official. The elected official must pay for all marginal payments
related to his or her participation in the plan.
   (G)   Exception; deduction. Notwithstanding divisions (D) and (E) above, an
elected official who elects to participate in an employee insurance or benefit
plan may pay for the plan by authorizing the city to deduct from his or her
monthly compensation an amount sufficient to pay the cost of the official’s
participation in the insurance and benefit plans so elected. To the extent the
elected official’s compensation is less than the premium, the elected official
shall be responsible for any balance.
   (H)   Option as compensation. The option to participate in the above-
specified benefit and insurance plans at cost is compensation to elected
officials. The exercise, or lack of exercise, or a change in the exercise of
the option to participate in said plans, shall be deemed not to be a change in
compensation. Rather, the option itself is a non-monetary emolument. It shall
be deemed paid for the duration of the term on the day of taking office.
(Prior Code, § 2.13)
§ 31.22 BONDS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Every officer and employee of the city, as may be required so to do by
law or by ordinance, before entering upon the duties of the office or position
of employment, shall give a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may
be required by law or by the City Council, which shall be subject to the
approval of the City Council, and which shall be conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the office or position of employment. Unless
otherwise provided for by law or by ordinance, such bonds shall have as surety
a company or corporation licensed to act as surety in the state and to do
business in the state. The premiums of such bonds shall be paid out of the
general funds of the city.
   (B)   The penalty of bonds of certain elected and appointed officers and
employees of the city shall not be less than:
 
Mayor     $10,000
Treasurer $100,000
 
(Prior Code, § 3.09)
§ 31.23 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE CITY.
   (A)   Effect of section. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to
all officers and employees of the city, regardless of the time of the creation
of the office or position of employment, and regardless of the time of the
appointment of the officer or employment of the employee.
   (B)   Appointments. The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council,
shall make appointments to fill all appointive offices. The respective
department heads shall select all employees and fill all positions of
employment of the city, with the advice and consent of the City Council, with
the exception of Police Department personnel, which fall under the jurisdiction
of the City Police Commission.
   (C)   Terms of office, vacancies. Every appointed officer of the city shall
hold office for a period of one year from the date of appointment and until a
successor is appointed and qualified. However, the term of office shall expire
no later than the end of the last municipal year in the Mayor’s term unless
otherwise provided by statute.
   (D)   Assignment of duties. The City Council shall have the power and
authority to assign to any appointed officer any duty which is not assigned by
ordinance or by law to some other specific officer, and the City Council shall
mediate and determine all disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers and duties of such officers.
   (E)   Records. All records kept or maintained by any officer or employee of
the city shall be open to inspection by the Mayor or any member of the City
Council at all reasonable times, whether or not such records are required to be
kept by statute or ordinance.
   (F)   Moneys received. Every officer of the city shall daily turn over all
moneys received in their official capacity to the Treasurer, with a statement
showing the source from which the same was received, and shall take the
Treasurer’s receipt therefor.
   (G)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
city officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the oath
or affirmation as set forth in the state municipal code.
   (H)   Salaries and wages. All officers and employees of the city shall
receive such salaries or wages as may be provided from time to time by
ordinance. No officer or employee receiving a salary from the city shall be
entitled to retain any portion of any fees collected or received in the
performance of any duties as a city officer or employee, in the absence of
specific authorization to the contrary as may be provided by law or by
ordinance.
   (I)   Conservators of the peace. The Mayor, aldermen, Chief of Police and
police officers shall be conservators of the peace and shall have such powers
of arrest, commitment and detention as may be prescribed by law or by
ordinance.
   (J)   Termination of office or employment. Every officer and employee of the
city, upon the termination of an office or employment, shall deliver to his or
her successor all books and records which may be the property of the city. If
no successor has been elected, chosen or appointed within seven days after the
termination of such office or position of employment, such property shall be
delivered to the Clerk or to the Treasurer, and a receipt taken therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3.10)
§ 31.24 CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. The Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
      CITY RECORD. An original, not a copy, of all records, reports, forms,
writings, letters, memoranda, books, papers, maps, photographs, microfilms,
cards, tapes, recordings, electronic data processing records, recorded
information and all other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or
characteristics, having been prepared, or having been or being used, received,
possessed or under the control of the city. A CITY RECORD includes, but is
expressly not limited to:
         (a)   Administrative manuals, procedural rules and instructions to
staff unless exempted by the Act;
         (b)   Final opinions and orders made in the adjudication of cases,
except employee grievance or disciplinary cases;
         (c)   Substantive rules;
         (d)   Statements and interpretations of policy which has been adopted
by the City Council;
         (e)   Final planning policies, recommendations and decisions;
         (f)   Factual reports, inspections reports and studies prepared by or
for the city;
         (g)   All information in any account, voucher or contract dealing with
the receipt or expenditure of city funds;
         (h)   The names, salaries, titles and dates of employment or election
of all employees and officers of the city;
         (i)   Materials containing opinions concerning the rights of the city
or of any other person;
         (j)   The name of every official and the final records of voting in
all proceedings of the city;
         (k)   Applications for any contract, permit, grant or agreement except
as exempted from disclosure by the Act;
         (l)   Each report, document, study or publication prepared by
independent consultants or other independent contractors for the city;
         (m)   All other information required by law to be made available for
public inspection or copying; and
         (n)   Information relating to any grant or contract made by or between
the city and another public body or private organization.
   (B)   Record depositories. City records shall be kept in the city’s official
place of business, the City Hall or city maintenance building, as appropriate,
or such other depositories as designated by the City Council, and be available
for public inspection or copying, pursuant to the Act, during City Hall
business hours.
   (C)   Possession of city records. Within five days after notification by the
Administrator or Clerk, to be made by certified mail, return receipt requested,
any person shall deliver to the Clerk all property, books and effects in his or
her possession, belonging to the city, or pertaining to the office he or she
has held. Upon his or her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all
damages caused thereby and subject to a fine of not less than $500 for each
violation; each day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. The Clerk shall deliver those records deemed necessary to the
successor in office to carry out his or her duties.
   (D)   Local Records Act. The disposition of any city record shall be in
accordance with the Local Records Act, 50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 3.11)
§ 31.25 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   All persons who are employed by the city and who occupy an office or are
employed in a position normally requiring performance of duty for less than
1,000 hours per year for the city are excluded from participation and
eligibility for IMRF benefits. This provision shall not affect persons employed
prior to January 1, 1982, in a position normally requiring performance of duty
for 600 hours or more per year by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.12)
§ 31.26 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the city shall be as follows: a circular disc with the
words “City of Marengo, Illinois” inscribed on the outer circle and, on the
inner circle, the words “Incorporated August 14, 1893,” inscribed.
(Prior Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.27 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin May 1 of each year and end on April
30 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.28 CITY DATUM, BENCH MARK.
   The city datum is hereby established as a rectangular bench mark, cut in the
face of the stone, 50 feet below the top of the stone door sill of the brick
building located on the southeast corner of State Street and Washington Street.
(Prior Code, § 3.15)
§ 31.29 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   In the event a lawsuit is filed against any former or current
elected city officer for acts relating to the city or city business affairs
while in office, the city shall retain and pay counsel of its choice to defend
the city shall also indemnify the officers for any acts for which he or she is
found liable within the scope of his or her office, duty or employment with the
city.
      (2)   The protection afforded to officers in this section shall apply
where defense and indemnity is not adequately provided for, without any
conflict of interest, by the city’s liability insurance carrier.
   (B)   The city shall defend and indemnify all former and current city
employees for acts within the scope of their duties and employment not
otherwise covered by the liability insurance carrier of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.16)
§ 31.30 PAID LEAVE RIGHTS.
   (A)   All regular, full-time employees of the city will, at all times, be
provided no less than 40 hours of any form of paid leave for every consecutive
12-month period of their employment.
   (B)   All part-time, temporary and seasonal employees of the city will, at
all times, be provided no less than one hour of any form of paid leave for
every 40 hours worked, up to a maximum 40 hours.
   (C)   The city, through its personnel policies, may make adjustments to
eligibility and accrual rates for various forms of paid leave, including sick
leave, on an ongoing basis without impacting, affecting or altering this
section, but in no event shall the rights to paid leave provided to employees
be less than what is provided herein.
   (D)   The rights of employees working for non-municipal employers within the
city shall be as stated in the Paid Leave for All Workers Act, 820 ILCS 192/
1 et seq., as may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 3.18) (Ord. passed 12-11-2023)
**** CODE OF ETHICS ****
§ 31.45 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The proper operation of democratic government
requires that officers and employees be independent, impartial and responsible
to the people; that government decisions and policy be made in proper channels
of the governmental structure; that public office not be used for personal
gain; and that the public have confidence in the integrity of its government.
In recognition of these goals, a Code of Ethics for all city officers and
employees is adopted. The purpose of this Code of Ethics is to establish
guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for all city officers and employees
by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible with the best
interest of the city and by directing disclosure by such officers and employees
of private financial or other interests in matters affecting city life.
   (B)   Code of Ethics. The requirements set forth herein shall constitute a
Code of Ethics establishing reasonable standards and guidelines for the ethical
conduct of officers and employees of the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of presidential or vice-
presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   Are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. As defined in § 3 of the State Public Labor Relations
Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer or
employee is on premises under the control of the employer and any other time
when the officer or employee is executing his or her official duties,
regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time-off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. As defined in § 9-1.4 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the city, whether on a full-time or part-time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The City of Marengo.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value, including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
   INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT.
      (1)   Any gift given to an officer or employee of the city from another
officer or employee of the city.
      (2)   Any gift given to an officer or employee of the city from a member
or employee of the legislative branch of the government of the state, a judge
or employee of the judicial branch of the government of the state, an officer
or employee of the executive branch of the government of the state, an officer
or employee of a unit of local government, home rule unit or school district,
or an officer or employee of any other governmental entity.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   Otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County
Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event.
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fund-raiser, political meeting or other political event.
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective officer or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention.
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action: by an officer; or by an employee; or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business: with the officer; or with an
employee; or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated: by the officer; or by an employee;
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   RELATIVE. People related to the officer or employee as father, mother, son,
daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first cousin,
nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather, grandmother, grandson,
granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister and including the father,
mother, grandfather or grandmother of the officer’s or employee’s spouse and
the officer’s or employee’s fiancé or fiancée.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.47 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the city in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: as part
of that officer or employee’s duties; as a condition of employment; or during
any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either: in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party or of a political organization or club.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.48 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or employee and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee or his or her spouse
or immediate family member pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code,
being 10 ILCS 5/, or activities associated with a fund-raising event in support
of a political organization or candidate;
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a relative;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided, that the food or refreshments are: consumed on
the premises from which they were purchased or prepared; or catered. For the
purpose of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are purchased
ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
         (i)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee and are customarily provided to others
in similar circumstances;
         (j)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered or succeeded.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.49 ETHICS ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator shall designate an appropriate city employee to
serve as the Ethics Administrator for the city.
   (B)   The Ethics Administrator shall provide information to the officers and
employees of the city concerning the existence and content of this subchapter.
This may be done by incorporating the contents of this Code of Ethics into the
city’s Employee Guidelines and Policy Manual and by providing this Manual to
all officers and employees of the city.
   (C)   The Ethics Administrator shall refer any inquiries regarding the
application or interpretation of this subchapter to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.50 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Ethics
Commission of the City of Marengo (“Commission”). The Commission shall be
comprised of three members appointed by the Administrator with the advice and
consent of the City Council. No person shall be appointed as a member of the
Commission who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected officer of the city.
   (B)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees shall
draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two Commissioners shall serve two-
year terms, and the third Commissioner shall serve a one-year term. Thereafter,
all Commissioners shall be appointed to two-year terms. Commissioners may be
re-appointed to serve subsequent terms.
   (C)   At the first meeting of the Commission, the Commissioners shall choose
a Chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two
Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two members.
   (D)   The Administrator, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
may remove a Commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office after service on the Commissioner by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be filled in the
same manner as original appointments.
   (E)   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with this subchapter and refer
violations of §§
31.47 and
31.48 to the City Attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall, however, act
only upon the receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation of this
subchapter and not upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this subchapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the city to cooperate with the Commission during the
course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests by
the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge;
      (5)   To prepare and publish such manuals and guides as the Commission
deems appropriate to facilitate compliance with the terms of this subchapter;
and
      (6)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this subchapter shall be
filed with the Ethics Commission.
      (2)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (3)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission shall
meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is deemed
sufficient to allege a violation of this subchapter, to determine whether there
is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to
proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by
the Open Meetings Act. Within seven business days after receiving the
complaint, the Commission shall issue notice to the complainant and the
respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the sufficiency of the complaint and,
if necessary, on probable cause to proceed. If the complaint is deemed not
sufficient to allege a violation or if there is no determination of probable
cause, then the Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint,
and that notice shall be made public.
      (4)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
31.48 and there is a determination of probable cause, then the Commission’s
notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled within four weeks
after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission may elect to
notify in writing the City Attorney to prosecute such actions and request that
the complaint be adjudicated judicially and the Commission’s notice to the
parties shall indicate this fact.
      (5)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of §
31.47, then the Commission shall notify in writing the City Attorney to
prosecute such actions and shall transmit to the City Attorney the complaint
and all additional documents in the custody of the Commission concerning the
alleged violation. The Commission’s notice to the parties shall indicate these
facts.
      (6)   If the Commission elects to hear a case brought under §
31.48, on the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours public notice of the
meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
      (7)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed hearing
of a case brought under §
31.48 is concluded, the Commission shall either: dismiss the complaint; or
issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
Administrator or other officer having authority to discipline the officer or
employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both. The particular findings
in the case, any recommendation for discipline and any fine imposed shall be a
matter of public information.
      (8)   If the hearing on a case brought under §
31.48 was closed to the public, the respondent may file a written demand for a
public hearing on the complaint within seven business days after the issuance
of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a fine, or both. The
filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the recommendation or fine.
Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the Commission shall conduct a
public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48 hours’ public notice of the
hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission shall publicly issue a
final recommendation to the alleged violator and to the Administrator or other
officer having authority to discipline the officer or employee or impose a fine
upon the violator, or both.
      (9)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (F)(7) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render such decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
      (10)   A complaint alleging the violation of this subchapter must be
filed within one year after the alleged violation.
      (11)   In the event a member of the Commission is the subject of an
alleged violation of this subchapter, such Commissioner shall immediately
recuse himself or herself from the investigation of such alleged violation, and
shall take no part in the final action of the Commission regarding such alleged
violation. A substitute Commissioner shall be appointed pursuant to the terms
of division (A) above for purposes relating to this matter only.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.51 DISTRIBUTION OF CODE OF ETHICS.
   The Ethics Administrator shall cause a copy of this Code of Ethics to be
distributed to every officer and employee of the city within ninety days after
enactment of this Code of Ethics. Thereafter, this Code of Ethics shall be
incorporated in the city’s Employee Guidelines and Policy Manual.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For the violation of any of the provisions of §
31.02, upon conviction, a fine may be imposed of not less than $25 nor more
than $750 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.02)
   (C)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.47 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.48 is subject to a fine in an amount on not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   The Commission may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000
against any person who violates this Code of Ethics or who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
      (4)   In addition to any administrative fines imposed pursuant to
division (C)(3) above, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of §§
31.45 through
31.51 to the Ethics Commission, the State’s Attorney or any other law
enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (5)   A violation of §
31.47 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the City Attorney by filing
in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense.
The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure.
Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond
a reasonable doubt.
      (6)   A violation of §
31.48 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
city, or the Ethics Commission, through the designated administrative
procedure.
      (7)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
31.45 through
31.51 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Prior Code, § 3.17)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.02   Economic Development Commission
§ 32.01 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. A Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby created for the
city to carry out the duties of a Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals.
For the purpose of this section, COMMISSION shall be construed to mean the
Planning and Zoning Commission, and COMMISSIONERS shall be construed to mean
the members of the Commission.
   (B)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of a Chairperson and six
members to be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of the Commission. The
Chairperson shall be appointed annually by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council. Annually, the Commissioners shall elect one of
their own to serve as vice-Chairperson.
   (C)   Term of office. The first appointees shall serve for the following
terms, or until their respective successors, in similar manner, have been
appointed and qualified: one for one year, one for two years, one for three
years, one for four years, one for five years, one for six years and one for
seven years. Successors to each member so appointed shall serve five-year terms
except that vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of the membership
vacated. The term of each Commissioner shall expire April 30 of the year of the
expiration of its respective term of office. Thereafter, the appointments shall
be made at the first meeting of the fiscal year of the City Council.
   (D)   Vacancy. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment.
   (E)   Removal. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may remove
any member of the Commission for cause after a public hearing.
   (F)   Compensation. The Chairperson and members of the Commission shall
receive, as compensation, $50 and $30, respectively, for each attended
Commission meeting.
   (G)   Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals reference. Any ordinance,
code, regulation and the like, of the city or state statute that references the
Plan Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals shall mean the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (H)   Duties of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The duties of the
Planning and Zoning Commission are as follows:
      (1)   (a)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive
plan of public improvements looking to the present and future development of
the city. After its adoption by the City Council this plan shall be known as
the Official Plan of the City of Marengo (“official plan”). Thereafter, from
time to time, the Commission may recommend changes in the official plan. This
plan may include reasonable requirements with reference to the streets, alleys
and public grounds in unsubdivided land situated within the corporate limits or
in contiguous territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits and not included in any municipality. These requirements shall
be effective whenever this unsubdivided land is subdivided after the adoption
of the official plan;
         (b)   Following the adoption of the official plan no map or plat of
any subdivision presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits
of the city or in contiguous territory outside of and not more than one and
one-half miles from those limits and not included in any other municipality,
shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon
shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds in conformity with the
official plan.
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time
plans for specific improvements pursuant to the official plan;
      (3)   To give aid to the city officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan and to further the
making of these projects, and generally promote the official plan;
      (4)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
code as may be conferred by the city and are granted a city under the state
municipal code (65 ILCS), including, but not limited to, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
1 through 5/11-12-12;
      (5)   (a)   To hear appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator, relating to
Chapter 158, by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved thereby, or by any
officer, department, Council or Commission of the city. The appeal shall be
taken within 45 days of the action complained of by filing a notice of appeal,
in duplicate, specifying the grounds thereof, in the office of the City Clerk
who shall transmit forthwith one copy to the Zoning Administrator and one copy
to the Chairperson of the Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Chairperson of the Commission all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken;
         (b)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Commission that,
by reason of facts stated in the certification, a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, the proceedings shall not be stayed
except by a restraining order issued by the Commission or a court of record
after notice to the Zoning Administrator and on due cause shown; and
         (c)   The Commission shall select a reasonable time and place for the
hearing of the appeal, give due notice thereof to all interested parties and
shall render a written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any
person may appear at the hearing and present testimony in person or by a duly
authorized agent or attorney. The Commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   To recommend to the City Council after holding a public hearing on
application for variations from the strict enforcement of any provisions of
Chapter 158, in accordance with the rules and standards set forth therein;
      (7)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on applications for special uses listed in each of the several zoning
districts;
      (8)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on applications for planned developments referred to it by the City Council and
to hear and decide other matters referred to it or upon which it is required to
pass under the provisions of
Chapter 158;
      (9)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on petitions for amendment of the provisions of
Chapter 158 and the boundary lines of zoning districts established therein;
      (10)   To transmit to the City Council, with every recommendation,
findings of fact and to refer to any exhibits containing plans and
specifications relating to its recommendation, which plans and specifications
shall remain a part of the permanent records of the Commission. The findings of
facts shall specify the reason or reasons for its recommendation. The terms of
the relief recommended shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion or
statement separate from the findings of fact of the Commission;
      (11)   To file immediately in the office of the City Clerk every rule,
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Commission after any
meeting or hearing, which shall be a public record;
      (12)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the
Commission to change any of the provisions of
Chapter 158 or district boundary lines established hereby. The concurring vote
of four members shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision
or determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which the Commission is authorized to act; and
      (13)   Additional duties of the Commission are also outlined in the
city’s zoning ordinances, this code and the state municipal code.
   (I)   Special Zoning Commission. The Commission shall serve as a special
zoning commission whenever a text amendment is proposed to
Chapter 158.
   (J)   Meetings. All meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Commission and/or City Council
may determine. The presence of four members shall be necessary for a quorum.
All meetings shall be open to the public, and the public shall be permitted to
comment before the Commission in the same manner as provided in §
30.08(B) except that for any public hearings, the public shall have the right
to participate in the hearing in the manner established by the Chair of the
Commission. The Chairperson, or Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. The Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, keep record of its examinations and other official actions,
prepare findings of fact and record the individual votes upon every question.
Expenses incurred by the Commission in the performance of official duties are
to be itemized and shall be reimbursed by the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.06) (Ord. 01-4-4, passed - -; Ord. 17-6-2, passed - -)
§ 32.02 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. It is hereby established a citizens commission which
shall be known as the City Economic Development Commission (“Commission”) for
the purpose of structuring sound economic development programs through
conducting such research and inventory of resources for the preparation of
industrial fact profiles to be used in presentations to industrial and
commercial prospects considering expansion or location in the city area. The
Commission shall make its findings and recommendations to the City Council in
the manner provided herein.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The membership of the Commission shall be composed of 11
Commissioners; residency in the city shall not be required by four members. The
Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council. One of the nine Commissioners shall be appointed Chairperson
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      (2)   The term of office for each Commissioner shall be three years
beginning on May 1.
      (3)   Upon expiration of a member’s term, successors shall be appointed
for three-year terms by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council. In addition to the 11 members herein provided, the Mayor shall serve
as an ex officio, non-voting member.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To investigate and become informed about existing businesses,
commercial enterprises and industries in the city and to promote rehabilitation
and expansion wherever and whenever possible;
      (2)   To investigate and become informed about the economic climate in
the city and, after findings of fact, make recommendations to the City Council;
      (3)   To provide information to the management of various industries and
commercial enterprises which may be interested in locating their plants,
facilities or businesses within the city and to promote the city for such
purpose, in the event that, in the opinion of the Commission, such industries
are of such a kind and nature that would enhance the city economically and
would contribute to its natural expansion and growth;
      (4)   To evaluate economic forces for optimum contributions to creation
of jobs and provision of service for the citizens of the city; for improvement
of the tax base; for minimal impact on the natural environment and the
community’s ability to provide basic services; and
      (5)   To recommend to the City Council the provision or procurement of
professional services to carry out the activities of the Commission.
   (D)   Funding. The Commission shall be authorized to expend no municipal
funds other than those appropriated and approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Volunteers. The Commission is authorized to enlist the volunteer
services of such other members of the community who will assist in achieving
the goals of sound economic growth, recognizing broad community involvement
will assure broad community support.
   (F)   Reporting and recordkeeping. The Commission shall comply in all
respects with the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.) and shall keep
comprehensive minutes of all meetings which describe clearly and completely
each and every subject discussed at said meeting and any action taken by the
Commission. Copies of said minutes shall be provided to the City Council
together with any support data, documents and attachments. The Commission shall
meet no less than six times per calendar year. The Commission may also hold
additional special meetings, as necessary, as part of its business visitation
program. City staff shall supply the Commission with program status reports
during those months when the Commission is not scheduled to meet. The
Commission shall make periodic reports on its progress and shall make
recommendations to the City Council regularly, but in no case, not less than
once every six months.
   (G)   Compensation. Commissioners shall be paid a per diem in such amount as
is established from time to time by the City Council; but in no case shall the
Commissioners be paid for more than one meeting per month.
   (H)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs on the Commission, said vacancy shall
be filled by the appointment of a Commissioner by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council. However, no such appointment shall be made until
the expiration of 30 days after the occurrence of the vacancy.
   (I)   Public comment. The public shall be permitted to comment before the
Commission in the same manner as provided in §
30.08(B) except that for any public hearings, the public shall have the right
to participate in the hearing in the manner established by the Chair of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 05-6-2, passed - -; Ord. 08-5-1, passed - -; Ord.
17-6-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Department established
   
33.02   Chief of Police
   
33.03   Deputy Chief
   
33.04   Additional and special police
   
33.05   Oath
   
33.06   Police powers and duties
   
33.07   Duties of officers
   
33.08   Order of command
   
33.09   Police Department rules and regulations
   
33.10   Police Commission
   
33.11   Police Pension Fund and Police Pension Board
   
33.12   Police officer training reimbursement and pre-employment agreement
Emergency Management Agency
   
33.25   Establishment
   
33.26   Coordinator
   
33.27   Mobile support team
   
33.28   Mutual aid
   
33.29   Emergency action
   
33.30   Compensation
   
33.31   Purchases and expenditures
   
33.32   Oath
   
33.33   Office
   
33.34   Budget; levy of taxes
   
33.35   Local state of emergency
 
   
33.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Police Department Pre-Employment Agreement
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the municipal
government of the city, which shall be known as the Police Department
(“Department”) and shall consist of a Chief of Police (“Chief”), Deputy Chief
and of such number of lieutenants, sergeants, patrol officers and other
employees as may be provided from time to time by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.01)
§ 33.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council, hereby retains
the right to appoint a Chief. The appointment shall be made annually to
coincide with the fiscal year.
   (B)   The Chief shall superintend the work of the Department, and the police
and other employees of the Department shall be under his or her command. The
Chief may exercise such powers and shall perform such other duties as may be
provided for by ordinance or resolution, or other action of the City Council.
Whenever any statute, ordinance or resolution refers to the City Constable,
City Marshal or similar title, it shall be construed to mean the Chief. The
Chief shall be the keeper of the city jail and have custody of all persons
incarcerated therein. The Chief shall be custodian of all lost, abandoned or
recovered stolen property in the city; shall keep such records and make such
reports concerning the Department activities as may be required by statute or
ordinance; and shall be responsible for the Department’s performance of all its
functions and all Department members, who shall serve subject to the orders of
the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 4.02)
§ 33.03 DEPUTY CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Deputy Chief is hereby established for the Department.
The Deputy Chief, who shall be appointed by the Chief with the approval of the
Mayor, shall be an exempt rank immediately below that of the Chief and shall be
appointed to the position pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4. The appointment shall
be from the rank of sworn, full-time officers of the city.
   (B)   The Deputy Chief shall serve at the discretion of the Chief and, if
removed from the position, shall revert to the rank held immediately prior to
appointment to the Deputy Chief position.
(Prior Code, § 4.03)
§ 33.04 ADDITIONAL AND SPECIAL POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment. In addition to the part-time police officers and
employees of the Department, the Mayor and the Chief may each appoint and
employ such special police and other temporary employees as either may find
necessary or desirable, at such reasonable compensation as may be approved by
the City Council. The Mayor or the Chief may, at the request of any property
owner, or any person engaged in business of the city and in need of special
police protection, appoint such persons as special police protection as either
may find necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Compensation. The city shall not be required to pay any person so
employed for such special police protection, but such person shall be paid for
his or her services by the person for whom such special police protection is
afforded.
   (C)   Liability.
      (1)   Each person so appointed, together with the person requesting such
special police protection, shall execute and file with the City Clerk an
agreement in writing agreeing to save the city harmless of and from any and all
liability for anything which such special police may do or fail to do while
serving in such capacity, and agreeing to fully indemnify the city for any such
liability in case any is imposed upon it, as well as all cost and expenses
connected therewith, including all legal expenses connected with defending any
and all lawsuits which may be instituted against the city for the enforcement
of any such alleged liability.
      (2)   In addition, the City Council may require such other security as it
may deem desirable as a condition to any such appointment or as a condition to
the continuance of any such appointment.
   (D)   Revocation. The appointment of anyone as a special police officer
pursuant to this section may, at any time, be revoked by the Chief or Mayor and
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 33.05 OATH.
   (A)   The Chief, each police officer and each employee belonging to the
Department, before entering upon his or her duties as a member of the
Department, shall take and subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
“I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the ordinances of
the City of Marengo, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of
           of the city, according to the best of my ability.”
   (B)   This oath or affirmation, so subscribed, shall be filed in the office
of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 33.06 POLICE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Every employee of the Department shall have all the powers provided for
under the provisions of law and by ordinance of the city. It shall be the duty
of the Department to use every responsible means for maintenance of law and
order in the city, for the enforcement of the ordinances of the city and for
the performance of such other duties and functions usually performed by police
departments.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 33.07 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Lieutenant. The lieutenant shall be immediately subordinate to the
Deputy Chief. The lieutenant is charged with all juvenile matters with the city
and management and administration of the records of the Department and with
executing the proper performance of all other police duties for the subordinate
members of the Department. In the absence of the Deputy Chief, it shall be the
duty of the lieutenant to discharge the obligations and assume the
responsibilities of the Deputy Chief. The lieutenant shall also be in command
during all hours of duty during which the Deputy Chief is not specifically on
duty.
   (B)   Sergeant. The sergeant shall be subordinate to the lieutenant. Any
sergeant is charged with executing the proper performance of patrol and other
police duties for subordinate members of the Department assigned to duty during
the sergeant’s shift. In the absence of the Deputy Chief or lieutenant, it
shall be the duty of the senior sergeant to discharge all of the obligations
and assume all of the responsibilities of the Deputy Chief or lieutenant. The
sergeant shall also be in command on all patrols and during all hours of duty
during which the Deputy Chief or lieutenant are not specifically on duty.
(Prior Code, § 4.07)
§ 33.08 ORDER OF COMMAND.
   (A)   During the temporary absence of the commanding officers, the command
devolves upon the subordinate present next in seniority to such commanding
officers. The command seniority is determined first by rank and second by
continuous service in the rank.
   (B)   The relative rank in position and order of command shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Chief;
      (2)   Deputy Chief;
      (3)   Lieutenant;
      (4)   Sergeant; and
      (5)   Patrol.
(Prior Code, § 4.08)
§ 33.09 POLICE DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Department shall be regulated by the standard operating procedures,
rules and regulations and special orders issued by the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 4.09)
§ 33.10 POLICE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Provisions adopted. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., said
provisions are hereby adopted and all applicable provisions therein (or as
amended by the state legislature in the future) are incorporated herein by
reference as if fully set forth herein. At such times the Police Commission
prepares to establish a register of eligibles, a non-refundable application
packet fee shall be charged to cover the cost of such packet. Except for the
Chief, the Police Commission shall appoint all full-time police officers when
authorized by the City Council. The public shall be permitted to comment before
the Commission in the same manner as provided in §
30.08(B) except that for any public hearings, the public shall have the right
to participate in the hearing in the manner established by the Chair of the
Commission.
   (B)   Compensation. The Chairperson and members of the Commission shall
receive, as compensation, $50 and $30, respectively, for each attended
Commission meeting.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
§ 33.11 POLICE PENSION FUND AND POLICE PENSION BOARD.
   Pursuant to Article III of the State Pension Code (40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.),
the provisions of Article III are hereby adopted and all applicable provisions
therein (or as amended by the state legislature in the future) are herein by
reference as if fully set forth herein. Of those persons appointed to the
Police Pension Board by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, one shall be a resident of the city. The public shall be permitted to
comment before the Board in the same manner as provided in §
30.08(B) except that for any public hearings, the public shall have the right
to participate in the hearing in the manner established by the Chair of the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 4.11)
§ 33.12 POLICE OFFICER TRAINING REIMBURSEMENT AND PRE-EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the contractual obligation and duty of every police
officer (“officer”) to reimburse the city for the costs incurred by the city
for the administration of written and physical agility examinations;
interviews; background investigations; medical, psychiatric, drug-screening and
other employment-related examinations; uniforms and equipment issued by the
city; Basic Law Enforcement Academy training; and salary paid during field
training sessions and when attending Basic Law Enforcement Academy training. If
resignation is prior to 24 months from the date of hire, reimbursement shall be
100%. If resignation occurs prior to 36 month, but more than 24 months, from
the date of hire, reimbursement shall be 50%.
   (B)   Before an officer begins employment with the city, the officer shall
enter into a pre-employment agreement with the city. Such agreement shall be in
substantial form as provided in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.12)
**** EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY ****
§ 33.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the City Emergency Management Agency (“EMA”) to
prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with the State Emergency
Management Agency Act, 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., as amended. The Emergency
Management Agency shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 5.01)
§ 33.26 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of Emergency Management Agency shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve until
removed by same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the Emergency Management Agency,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor and City Council as provided
by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 5.02)
§ 33.27 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Agency shall perform such Emergency
Management Agency functions within the city as shall be prescribed in and by
the State Emergency Management Agency plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided in the State Emergency Management Agency 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., as
amended.
   (B)   All or any members of the Emergency Management Agency organization may
be designated as members of a Mobile Support Team created by the Director of
the State Emergency Management Agency as provided by law.
   (C)   The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the City Emergency Management Agency organization.
   (D)   (1)   Any member of the Mobile Support Team who is a city employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the city,
while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5.03)
§ 33.28 MUTUAL AID.
   The Coordinator may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
municipalities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement
shall be effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and City Council and
by the State Director of Emergency Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 5.04)
§ 33.29 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   (A)   State or national. If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency
exists in the event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the
occurrence within the state of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage
or other hostile action, or from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be
the duty of the Emergency Management Agency to cooperate fully with the State
Emergency Management Service Agency and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
   (B)   City. A local disaster emergency may be declared only by the Mayor. It
shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except
by or with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Clerk.
   (C)   Effect. The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is
to activate the response and recovery aspects of any and applicable local or
interjurisdictional disaster emergency plans and to authorize the furnishing of
aid and assistance thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5.05)
§ 33.30 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Pay rate. Members of the Emergency Management Agency who are paid
employees or officers of the city, if called for training by the State Director
or Emergency Management Agency, shall receive for the time spent in such
training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who
are not such city employees or officers shall receive for such training time
such compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
   (B)   Reimbursement. The Treasurer may receive and allocate to the
appropriate fund, any reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses
incident to training members of the Emergency Management Agency as prescribed
by the Emergency Management Agency State Director, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team while serving outside the city
in response to a call by the Governor or Emergency Management Agency State
Director, as provided by law, and other reimbursement made by the state
incident to the Emergency Management Agency activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 5.06)
§ 33.31 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council may, on recommendation of the Coordinator,
authorize any purchase or contract necessary to place the city in a position to
combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or
other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the Coordinator is
authorized, on behalf of the city, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
emergency without regard to the statutory procedure or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts of obligations, as authorized in
the State Emergency Management Agency 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq. as amended;
provided, that if the Mayor meets at such time, he or she shall act subject to
the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 5.07)
§ 33.32 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Emergency Management
Agency organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to
the following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
“I,                           do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservations or purpose of evasion; and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties upon which I am about to enter, and I do further swear (or affirm)
that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time
as I am affiliated with the City Emergency Management Agency organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
state by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 5.08)
§ 33.33 OFFICE.
   The Mayor and City Council are authorized to designate space in a city
building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Mayor, for the Emergency
Management Agency as its office.
(Prior Code, § 5.09)
§ 33.34 BUDGET; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Mayor and City Council may budget the Emergency Management Agency for
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for the
Emergency Management Agency purposes only, a tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100
of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes,
as provided by the State Emergency Management Agency 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq. as
amended however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event
exceed $0.25 per capita.
(Prior Code, § 5.10)
§ 33.35 LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency, or imminent emergency, as is defined in this section,
exists, the City Council may activate the Mayor’s extraordinary powers, as set
forth in this section, with such limitations as the City Council deems
necessary.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
         (b)   Any natural disaster, epidemic or human-made calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Declaration. Whenever an emergency, as defined in division (A) above,
exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a local state of
emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath, setting
forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature of the
emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in accordance
with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration must be filed
with the Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
   (C)   Orders authorized. After the declaration of a local state of
emergency, the Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare,
and to address any issues caused or threatened by the emergency, take any or
all of the following actions by executive order during the local state of
emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
      (2)   Approve previous expenditures of the city for the purpose of
continuing the operations of the city;
      (3)   Authorize agreements for purchases and contracts that impose a
financial obligation on the city that would otherwise be required to be
authorized by the City Council;
      (4)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
local state of emergency; and
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Duration. The declaration of a local state of emergency herein
authorized shall be effective for a period of up to 30 days or until the
adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the City Council,
whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by a declaration of the Mayor,
or his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the emergency no
longer exists. The Mayor or his or her interim emergency successor, shall have
the power to re-declare the existence of an emergency at the end of each 30-day
period during the time said emergency exists.
   (E)   Notice. Upon issuing the declaration of a local state of emergency
herein authorized, the Clerk shall notify the news media situated within the
city, and shall cause at least four copies of the declaration of a local state
of emergency to be posted at the following places within the city: the City
Hall, the police station and the post office.
   (F)   Effect on other ordinances. Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to impair the powers contained in this code, giving powers to the
Police and Fire Departments, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 5.11)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
33.35, or executive orders issued pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of an
offense against the city and shall be punished as provided by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5.11)
APPENDIX A: POLICE DEPARTMENT PRE-EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Please print your name in all of the appropriate blanks, sign the agreement,
have someone else witness your signature and submit the agreement with your
application for employment.
   MARENGO POLICE DEPARTMENT PRE-EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
This agreement is entered into on          /          /          , between
                          and the City of Marengo, Illinois (hereinafter
referred to as the city).
   WTTNESSETH
WHEREAS,                         has expressed an interest in becoming a police
officer in the Marengo Police Department; and
WHEREAS,                         understands that, should he or she be hired as
a police officer in the Marengo Police Department, the city will incur various
expenses, including, but not limited to, costs of administering tests and
conducting interviews; costs of performing background investigations; costs of
medical, psychiatric, drug screening, polygraph tests and other employment-
related examinations; costs of providing uniforms and equipment; costs for
training sessions and travel conducted by the City of Marengo and the Marengo
Police Department personnel and staff at a basic law enforcement training
facility; and, salary paid to police officers during their training; and
WHEREAS, the city is willing to assume the various costs associated with the
examination, interviewing and investigation of prospective police officers and
the provision of uniforms and equipment, training and salary and the like
during training for newly-hired police officers, provided the city receives a
commitment from an applicant that he or she will remain in the Marengo Police
Department for a minimum period of 36 months; and
WHEREAS, the city seeks to have well-trained police officers on the Marengo
Police Department; and
WHEREAS,                         understands and acknowledges that, should he
or she be hired as a police officer for the Marengo Police Department, he or
she will be expected to remain in the employment of the city for a minimum of
36 months or else reimburse the city for the expenses incurred by the city in
testing, interviewing, equipping and training him or her.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants contained
herein below, the parties do freely and voluntarily enter into this agreement.
SECTION 1. The recitals stated above are incorporated herein as part of this
agreement.
SECTION 2. The City agrees:
   (a)   To consider                         for employment as a police officer
for the Marengo Police Department; however,                        
acknowledges that execution of this agreement in no way constitutes a guarantee
of employment with the Marengo Police Department.
   (b)   To administer various examinations in order to determine whether
                                  is an appropriate candidate for employment as
a police officer for the Marengo Police Department;
   (c)   To provide initial uniforms and equipment;
   (d)   To provide such training and instruction as the city, in its sole
discretion, deems appropriate; and
   (e)   To pay                         his or her full wages during any period
in which                         is being trained.
SECTION 3.                         agrees that should he or she be hired as a
police officer for the Marengo Police Department, he or she will remain in the
employment of the city as a police officer for a minimum of 36 months from the
date of hire. If he or she does not remain in the employment of the city as a
police officer for a minimum of 36 months from the date of hire, he or she will
reimburse the city for any and all costs incurred as enumerated in Section 4
below at the following rate:
   (a)   100%, if resignation is prior to 24 months having elapsed from date of
hire; and
   (b)   50%, if resignation occurs prior to the time 36 months, but more than
24 months have elapsed.
SECTION 4. Schedule of costs to be incurred by city:
   (a)   Administration of written and physical agility examination;
   (b)   Interviews;
   (c)   Background investigation;
   (d)   Medical, psychiatric, drug-screening and other employment-related
examinations;
   (e)   Uniforms and equipment issued by the city;
   (f)   Basic Law Enforcement Academy Training facility; and
   (g)   Salary paid during field training sessions and Basic Law Enforcement
Academy training.
SECTION 5. This agreement shall terminate after the completion of 36 months
from the date of hire.
SECTION 6.                         understands that employment with the Marengo
Police Department is contingent upon his or her completion of a probationary
period of 12 months after completing of Basic Law Enforcement Academy training
or after 12 months if previously certified and not requiring Basic Law
Enforcement Academy training and continued performance to the satisfaction of
the Marengo Police Department. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a
promise or agreement by either the Marengo Police Department or the city to
retain                         as a police officer for the Marengo Police
Department for 36 months or any portion thereof.
SECTION 7. The city and the Marengo Police Department does not, by this
agreement, waive any of the rights, privileges or prerogatives they possess to
discipline, suspend or discharge any employee pursuant to Rules of the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners, the Rules and Regulations of the Marengo Police
Department, and the labor agreement between the city and the Fraternal Order of
Police Lodge No. 129, now in effect or as may be altered or modified in the
future.
SECTION 8.                         agrees that, should it become necessary for
the city to file suit in order to collect the costs as enumerated in Section 4,
he or she will pay all costs of said suit, including reasonable attorneys’ fees
and all interest allowed at the legal rate on the amount which is owed.
SECTION 9.                         agrees that any outstanding debt incurred by
the city enumerated in Section 4 will be deducted from the final payroll
disbursement providing                         is in agreement, or
alternatively agrees that the city retains the right to commence legal
proceedings against him or her to recoup any outstanding balance.
SECTION 10.                         acknowledges that he or she has examined
this agreement, that he or she has read and understands this agreement, and he
or she has the right to consult an attorney prior to entering this agreement.
SECTION 11. Any notice that may be required by this agreement shall be sent to
the parties at the addresses below:
City:   Chief of Police
c/o Marengo Police Department
142 East Prairie Street Marengo, Illinois 60152
Applicant:                         
 
Address:                         
                         
SECTION 12. The invalidity of any portion of this agreement will not and shall
not affect the validity of any other provision. In the event that any provision
of this agreement is held to be invalid, the parties agree that the remaining
provisions shall be deemed in full force and effect as if they had been
executed by both parties subsequent to the expungement of the invalid
provision.
SECTION 13. No modification of this agreement shall be binding unless evidenced
in writing and signed by both parties.
SECTION 14. The city and                         agree that any proceeding
pursuant to or in connection with this AGREEMENT or amendment thereto shall be
brought in the 22nd Judicial Circuit, McHenry County, Illinois and the city and
                        hereby consent to jurisdiction and venue in that court.
This AGREEMENT has been executed and delivered at and shall be deemed to have
been made in the City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois and shall be
governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the state.
SECTION 15. The city agrees that it will not seek any of the costs enumerated
in Section 4 should the city terminate or discharge                        
from the Marengo Police Department.
Executed this                         day of                         , 20
              .
Applicant’s signature:                            Date:         /        /
           
Chief of Police:                                     Date:         /        /
           
City Administrator:                                Date:         /        /
           
Witnessed:                                 Attest:                             
   City Clerk
(Prior Code, Chapter 4, Exhibit A)
CHAPTER 34: USE OF CITY FACILITIES AND PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   City Hall uses
   
34.02   City Hall use procedures
   
34.03   Community event sign
§ 34.01 CITY HALL USES.
   (A)   Accepted uses.
      (1)   Access to City Hall meeting room areas (“facility”) on matters
other than official city business or city-sponsored events shall be restricted
to the following classes of organizations, corporations or agencies:
         (a)   Governmental or quasi-governmental units or districts which are
wholly or partly coterminous within the city; or
         (b)   Bona fide charitable or not-for-profit organizations, entities
or corporations which have a substantial involvement or provide a substantial
benefit to the citizens of the city.
      (2)   An organization shall be deemed to have substantial involvement or
provide a substantial benefit in the city if either a majority of its members
are residents or, in the case of regional organizations, if the city falls
within the region.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Prohibited uses of the facility are as follows.
      (1)   No religious services shall be permitted. However, the offering of
a prayer or invocation prior to a meeting shall not be considered a religious
service.
      (2)   No commercial enterprises, solicitation or sales of merchandise
whatsoever shall be transacted.
   (C)   Cancellation. The city reserves the right to deny permission, or
cancel permission once permission is granted, for any reason and shall not be
responsible for any loss, cost or damage or injury of any sort, direct or
indirect.
(Prior Code, § 7.01)
§ 34.02 CITY HALL USE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedures. All requests for use of the facility shall be made in
writing to the Administrator not less than 15 days prior to the date of use.
Such request shall identify one or more local residents for purposes of
receiving any communication relative to the request and also to act as the
responsible party for compliance with all rules and regulations pertaining to
facility use. The Administrator may also request supporting documentation to
confirm that the group is a permitted user.
   (B)   Cleanup. Any facility user shall be responsible for the condition of
the facility and all property within it, and shall leave the facility and all
property in its original condition. In the event the city has to cleanup,
repair or replace the facility and/or any property, the organization, through
the designated responsible person, shall be responsible for the city incurred
costs plus an administration fee equal to 50% of the cost.
   (C)   Hours. Use of the facility is restricted to the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
11:00 p.m. Any user group may post a notice, subject to the approval of the
Administrator, in the front door area of City Hall not more than 36 hours prior
to the use of the facility. Said notice shall be removed immediately after the
use.
   (D)   Rules and regulations. The Administrator shall make available to users
any other rules and regulations deemed necessary for the use of the facility.
   (E)   Indemnification. Each organization using the facility shall indemnify
and hold the city harmless from any loss, damage or claim of loss or damage or
injury of any sort arising or alleged to have arisen from the use of the
building. Proof of such insurance shall be provided to the Administrator prior
to use of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 7.02)
§ 34.03 COMMUNITY EVENT SIGN.
   The following guidelines, rules and regulations shall apply to the use of
the community event sign (for the purpose of this section, “sign”) located at
North State Street.
   (A)   Access to the sign for announcements other than official city business
or city-sponsored events shall be restricted to the following classes of
organizations, corporations or agencies:
      (1)   Governmental or quasi-governmental units or districts which are
wholly or partly coterminous with the city; or
      (2)   Bonafide charitable or not-for-profit organizations, entities or
corporations that have a substantial involvement or provide a substantial
benefit to the citizens in the community. An organization shall be deemed to
have a substantial benefit in the community if either a majority of its members
are city residents or, in the case or a regional organization, the city falls
within the region.
   (B)   No religious services may be announced or advertised on the sign.
   (C)   No commercial enterprises, solicitation or sales of merchandise
whatsoever may be announced or advertised on the sign.
   (D)   All requests for use of the sign shall be made in writing to the city
not less than 15 nor more than 180 days prior to the date for which the
announcement is sought. Each such request shall identify one or more city
resident for purposes of receiving any communication relative to the request
and also to act as a responsible party for compliance with all rules and
regulations pertaining to sign use. The city may also request supporting
documentation to confirm the group meets the qualifications of this section.
   (E)   No message shall remain on the sign for less than seven days nor more
than 14 days. For purposes of this section, the time period for a message shall
begin at 9:00 a.m. each Tuesday and conclude at 9:00 a.m. the following
Tuesday.
   (F)   The fee for the use of the sign shall be determined from time to time
by the City Council.
   (G)   Requests for canceling a scheduled message must be tendered to the
city, in writing, not less than 15 days prior to the scheduled appearance in
order to receive a refund of the fee.
   (H)   Reservations for the sign shall be on a first come first served space
available basis using the city’s receipt of the request as the date/time of
receipt.
   (I)   All messages placed on the sign will be with the standard fonts
provided. The city reserves the right to edit the text of requested messages as
it deems necessary. One complete line of blank text shall remain between
messages.
   (J)   Within 24 hours after an announcement is placed on the sign the city
shall be notified of any errors in the posted announcement.
   (K)   Each entity using the sign agrees to indemnify and hold the city
harmless from any damage or claim of loss or damage or injury of any sort
arising or alleged to have arisen from its use of the sign.
   (L)   The city shall not be responsible for any loss, cost or damage or
injury of any sort, direct or indirect, associated with the message.
   (M)   The city reserves the right to withdraw permission for a scheduled
message at any time.
(Prior Code, § 7.03)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Purchasing Standards and Procedures
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Policies
   
35.03   Purchase authority
   
35.04   Purchase orders
   
35.05   Open purchase orders
   
35.06   Vendor payment
   
35.07   Purchasing procedures
   
35.08   Joint purchasing
Bidding and Contract Procedures
   
35.20   Competitive bidding required
   
35.21   Formal contract procedure
   
35.22   Advertisements
   
35.23   Scope of notice
   
35.24   Bid deposit
   
35.25   Bid opening procedure
   
35.26   Rejection of bids
   
35.27   Bidders in default to city
   
35.28   Award of contract
   
35.29   Open market procedure
   
35.30   Officer and employee contracts
   
35.31   Emergency purchases
   
35.32   Cooperative purchasing
   
35.33   State and federal laws
   
35.34   Forms
 
   
35.99   Penalty
**** PURCHASING STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES ****
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish uniform standards and
procedures to be followed by all city departments, the City Council and city
commissions in the purchase of all commodities.
(Prior Code, § 17.01) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.02 POLICIES.
   The purchasing standards and procedures set forth herein are designed to:
   (A)   Attain maximum economy in municipal operations to the ultimate
advantage of local taxpayers and residents; and
   (B)   Provide equal opportunity for qualified vendors to serve city needs.
(Prior Code, § 17.02) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.03 PURCHASE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   In general, all supplies, materials, equipment and contractual/
professional services required for operational efficiency shall be included in
the annual budget. Purchase of same as required during the fiscal year shall
proceed in accordance with these procedures upon approval of the annual budget
by the City Council.
   (B)   Although included in the annual budget, certain equipment, projects or
services may be placed in a contingency status by the City Council as part of
its approval process. When action on such contingency items is desired by the
administrative staff, detailed justification of each item must be presented to
the City Administrator for review and approval consistent with the City
Council’s budget/fiscal policies.
   (C)   Department heads may authorize purchases, as identified in the
operating budget, up to $9,999. The City Administrator, or designee, must
approve purchases between $10,000 and $24,999. Purchases in excess of $25,000
require City Council approval.
   (D)   Each department head of the city shall be responsible for his or her
own department’s purchasing needs in strict compliance with the procedures set
forth herein. No department may make charges against budget accounts of other
departments.
   (E)   The Finance Department is responsible for determining if an item is
budgeted, adequate funds are available and proper purchasing procedures are
followed.
(Prior Code, § 17.03) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.04 PURCHASE ORDERS.
   (A)   A purchase order must be prepared for the following purchases:
      (1)   Any purchase of goods or services in excess of $1,000;
      (2)   Any purchase from a source determined by a formal bid, bid waiver
or formal quotation;
      (3)   Any capital outlay item; and
      (4)   Any case where the vendor requires a purchase order.
   (B)   Exclusive of the requirements in division (A) above, a department head
may request that a purchase order be prepared at any time they feel it is best
or prudent to do so. Department heads must approve all purchase orders.
Purchase orders over $2,000 also require approval by the City Administrator
before a purchase is initiated.
   (C)   The purchase order is prepared in three parts with distribution as
follows:
      (1)   White copy: mailed or delivered to vendor;
      (2)   Yellow copy: retained by requesting department; and
      (3)   Pink copy: ultimately routed to the Finance Department tor payment
after receipt of goods/services and vendor invoice.
   (D)   Purchase orders shall be issued in numerical sequence by the Finance
Department. The Finance Department shall keep a log of purchase order numbers.
   (E)   (1)   All purchase requisitions and purchase orders must have the
price of the goods stated. If it is absolutely impossible to list the exact
price, an estimated price may be used with the letters “EST” placed above the
price.
      (2)   Freight charges should be included on a requisition it possible. If
not known, the requisition must state “plus freight.”
   (F)   It must be remembered that a purchase order is actually a contract
between a vendor and the city. The purchase order must be prepared with this in
mind. All purchase orders must bear, as near as possible, delivered price to
avoid any problems in billing. A purchase order with no price shown is actually
not a purchase order.
(Prior Code, § 17.04) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.05 OPEN PURCHASE ORDERS.
   In certain circumstances where vendors are used frequently, an open purchase
order may be set up at the beginning of the year as approved by the Treasurer.
A purchase order must be approved by the department head before initiating the
purchase. The white copy of the purchase requisition is mailed or delivered to
the vendor. The yellow copy is retained by the requesting department and the
pink copy, or photocopy if purchase order amount is not satisfied, is
ultimately forwarded to the Finance Department after receipt of the goods/
services and vendor invoice.
(Prior Code, § 17.05) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.06 VENDOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   The department ordering the goods or services is responsible for the
accuracy of expense accounts used and that purchases fall within budget
parameters.
   (B)   Upon receipt of ordered items, the department must indicate the
quantity received complete with the initials of the employee receiving the
delivery and the date received. In the event of a back order or incomplete
delivery, notation of the applicable situation will be entered on the purchase
order. When such items are later received, a photocopy of the original purchase
order showing the partial shipment detail will be completed.
   (C)   Unless otherwise noted on receiving documents, it will be assumed by
the Finance Department that the ordering department is completely satisfied
with the quality and condition of items received.
   (D)   All applicable quotation forms, vendor invoices, purchase requisitions
and purchase orders, approved for payment by the department head or designee,
and the initialed receiving report must be forwarded to the Finance Department
for payment processing. All other data, including material data sheets, shall
be kept by the ordering department.
(Prior Code, § 17.06) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.07 PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purchase in excess of $25,000.
      (1)   City ordinance requires that all purchases made from one vendor for
a particular item or like types of items exceeding a cost of $25,000 must be
accomplished through formal bidding procedures or by a bid waiver approved by
the City Council. If doubt exists as to whether formal bidding is required, the
Treasurer shall be contacted before any purchase is initiated. The splitting of
a purchase into two or more purchase orders for the purpose of avoiding the
bidding process is prohibited.
      (2)   In certain circumstances, it may be felt by the department head or
the City Administrator that the best interests of the city would be served by a
purchase from one particular vendor despite the purchase amount being in excess
of $25,000. In such cases, a request to waive competitive bidding must be
submitted to the City Council for its consideration and approval.
   (B)   Purchases in excess of $10,000 but less than $25,000.
      (1)   At least three quotations and approval of the City Administrator
are required before such a purchase can be effectuated.
      (2)   The department head shall secure at least three verbal or written
quotations or proposals from perspective vendors for the item or service. As in
the case of formal bidding, the purchase shall be made from the lowest
responsible quotation. A quotation form (found at the end of this subchapter)
on the results of a quotation and vendor award recommendation shall be
forwarded to the City Administrator for approval.
      (3)   In the event a department head feels that a purchase under this
category should be made from one certain vendor rather than through quotations,
a recommendation to do so is to be directed to the City Administrator. In
effect, this is a quotation waiver.
      (4)   If it is found that a dire emergency condition exists and a
purchase in excess of $10,000 must be made to remedy the emergency, the
department head may make such purchase if verbally authorized by the City
Administrator. The department head must report the purchase to the City
Administrator by memorandum as expeditiously as possible relating the full
facts concerning the emergency and the costs incurred. An emergency condition
is described as a condition where the health, safety and/or welfare of the city
or its residents are affected.
   (C)   Purchases in excess of $1,000 but less than $25,000.
      (1)   Every effort should be taken to secure at least three quotations
before deciding on a suggested vendor. The requesting department should secure
the quotations themselves. A quotation form should also be prepared for these
purchases.
      (2)   In the event that a department head feels that a purchase under
this category should be made from one certain vendor rather than through
quotations, he or she should submit a memorandum with the purchase order
stating the reasons for the certain vendor preference.
   (D)   Purchases less than $1,000.
      (1)   Purchases in this category can best be described as those day-to-
day purchases needed to perform a job or service.
      (2)   Department heads are responsible for the purchases made by
personnel within their department. They may delegate this purchasing authority
to subordinates, but still bear responsibility that these procedures are
followed.
      (3)   Although day-to-day purchases under $1,000 may be done without a
purchase order and without prior approval, the responsibility still exists for
making the most economical purchases. Spot price checks and surveys must be
made from time to time to ensure that the price being paid is the best price
available and that the quality is the best that is required.
      (4)   Day-to-day purchasing should be made through the vendor who offers
the best usable product at the lowest price. Also, accepting deliveries should
rate preference over picking up where no delivery/premium charges are involved
and there is no immediate need for the item.
      (5)   When receiving an item purchased under informal buying, a receipt
or packing slip should be obtained. This receipt is to be turned in to the
department head who is to prepare a check authorization request. (See §
35.06.)
   (E)   Petty cash. Petty cash funds are established to pay for infrequent
purchases that are under $30 and require immediate payment. Tolls, parking,
filing fees and the like are traditional expenses that fall into this category.
Department heads must approve the petty cash reimbursement vouchers. The
Finance Department will conduct periodic audits of the petty cash fund.
   (F)   Purchases of a repetitive nature. It is not always practical to obtain
competitive quotations for certain purchases that are repetitive in nature. The
market must be periodically tested by the department head to determine if the
current supplier is the most economical.
(Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 35.08 JOINT PURCHASING.
   (A)   State purchasing.
      (1)   Certain items are annually let for bids by the State Procurement
Division. Any unit of government in the state may avail themselves of these bid
prices. Purchasing through state purchasing may satisfy the requirement for
bidding even though the purchase may be in excess of $10,000.
      (2)   When items are purchased through the state purchasing vendor, the
department head prepares a purchase order as normally prescribed but also
submits a copy to the State Procurement Division. Typed on this purchase order
must be the vendor number and contract order number. These numbers appear on
the state purchasing contract for that item.
   (B)   Cooperative purchasing. It may also be beneficial for the city to join
with other units of local government in securing price quotations and in bid
letting. Periodic checks of what other governmental units are paying can
confirm whether the city is receiving a good price. If a neighboring
municipality is contemplating the bidding of a particular item which is also to
be bid by the city, the joining of the two municipalities may result in a lower
price.
   (C)   Quotations form.
Quotations Form
                           Price
Company Name Contact Phone Item 1 Item 2 Item 3 Item 4
Quotations Form
                      Price
Company Contact Phone Item Item Item Item 4
Name                  1    2    3
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
Department Head Signature            Date
                                                                                   
 
 
City Administrator Signature (if required)   Date
                                                                                 
 
(Prior Code, § 17.07) (Ord. 25-7-3, passed 7-28-2025)
**** BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES ****
§ 35.20 COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   Any work or other public improvement that is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases of and
contracts for supplies, materials and services shall, except as specifically
provided herein, be based whenever possible on competitive bids.
(Prior Code, § 18.01)
§ 35.21 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All work or other public improvement that is not to be paid for in whole or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, and all purchases, orders or
contracts for supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services except as
otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed
$10,000, shall be purchased for the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of
the aldermen then holding office.
(Prior Code, § 18.02)
§ 35.22 ADVERTISEMENTS.
   (A)   Unless waived by the City Council, a notice inviting bids shall be
published at least once in a newspaper with general circulation within the
city. The city shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a
notice on the public bulletin board in the City Hall.
   (B)   A sample notice, titled “Invitation to Bid,” can be found in §
35.34 .
(Prior Code, § 18.03)
§ 35.23 SCOPE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general
description of the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall
state where specifications may be secured and shall specify the time and place
for opening bids.
   (B)   A sample instructions to bidders can be found in §
35.34 .
(Prior Code, § 18.04)
§ 35.24 BID DEPOSIT.
   (A)   When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract by
the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by
the City Council upon his or her failure to enter into a contract within ten
days after the bid is awarded.
   (B)   Such bid deposit may be in the form of a bank cashier’s check, bank
draft, bid bond or certified check bond in an amount as specified in the
advertisement for bids to ensure finalization of the contract and to indemnify
the city against all loss, damages and claims that may accrue against the city
as a consequence of the awarding of the contract.
(Prior Code, § 18.05)
§ 35.25 BID OPENING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Sealed bid. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope. A sample proposal form can be found at the
end of this subchapter.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notice. When any bidders are present, all the bids shall be read
aloud.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 18.06)
§ 35.26 REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The city, through the Mayor and City Council, shall have the authority to
reject all bids or parts of all bids or waive technicalities when the public
interest will be served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 18.07)
§ 35.27 BIDDERS IN DEFAULT TO CITY.
   The city shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default on the
payment of taxes, licenses or other money due the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.08)
§ 35.28 AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Authority of city. The City Council shall have the authority to award
contracts within the purview of this subchapter.
   (B)   Lowest responsible bidder.
      (1)   Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder on the
basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the city to accept.
      (2)   In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City Council
shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract and to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use requires;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (C)   Performance bonds. The City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city
and to conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds.
(Prior Code, § 18.09)
§ 35.29 OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All work and purchases of supplies, materials and services of less than the
estimated value of $10,000 shall be made in an open market, without newspaper
advertisement and without observing the procedure prescribed by this subchapter
for the award of formal contracts in such a manner so as to ensure the best
interests of the public after solicitation of bids on proposals by mail,
telephone, facsimile transmission or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 18.10)
§ 35.30 OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE CONTRACTS.
   Contracts with appointed officers and/or employees shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 18.11)
§ 35.31 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an apparent emergency that requires immediate work or purchase or
supplies, materials or services, the City Council shall be empowered to secure
by open market procedures as herein set forth, at the lowest obtainable price,
any work, supplies, materials or services regardless of the amount of the
expenditure. A finding of such an emergency shall be made in an affirmative
vote of at least two-thirds of the City Council at the time of such emergency
contract or no later than the first regular City Council meeting thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 18.12)
§ 35.32 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The city shall have the authority to join with other units of government in
cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the city would be
served thereby.
(Prior Code, § 18.13)
§ 35.33 STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   Where applicable, all federal and state laws shall be observed, including,
but not limited to, the Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.), the
State Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.), Public Works Employment
Discrimination Act (775 ILCS 10/0.01 et seq.), the State Blacklist Trade Law
(775 ILCS 15/1 et seq.) and the Public Works Preference Act (30 ILCS 560/0.01
et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 18.14)
§ 35.34 FORMS.
 
   Invitation to Bid
City of Marengo
 
Invitation to Bid: The City of Marengo will receive bid quotations for                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Sealed bids will be received in the office of the City Clerk until                                                               , Prevailing Time,                                                                                                and opened in the Council Room at that time.
 
The contractor shall observe ordinances adopted by the city regarding prevailing wage rates and such other laws and regulations regulating wage rates.
 
Each bidder shall certify evidence of an adopted written sexual harassment policy pursuant to 775 ILCS 5/2-105 along with the bid.
 
The city reserves the right to modify or waive technicalities in specifications, reject any or all bids, to waive irregularities or accept the bid that in its opinion will serve its best interest. It is the successful bidder’s responsibility to pay the prevailing wage for this type of work in accordance with state law as well as comply with all other state and federal regulations imposed on the city pertaining contractual work, Detailed specifications and bid forms
may be secured from the Marengo City Hall, 132 East Prairie Street, Marengo, IL 60152, during regular business hours.
   Instructions to Bidders
   For the City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois
1.   Receipt of Bids:
2.   Basis of Bids: Sealed bids will be received until the above-noted time and date.
3.   Project Description:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
4.   Preparation and Submission of Bids:
   A.   Each bid shall be submitted in duplicate on the exact form furnished. All blank spaces for bid prices, unit costs and alternatives must be filed in, in ink, in both words and figures. In case of any discrepancy in the amount of the bid, the prices expressed in written words shall govern.
   B.   The proposal must be delivered to the office of the City Clerk, Marengo City Hall, 132 East Prairie Street, Marengo, IL 60152, on or before                                                                                             Prevailing Time,                                                                                              , at which time they will be publicly opened. Proposals received after this time will not be considered.
   C.   The proposal shall be submitted in an opaque sealed envelope on or before the time stated and shall bear the name of the individual, firm or corporation submitting the bid and the title of the project.
   D.   Bidders may attach separate sheets to the proposal form for the purpose of explanation, exception or alternate proposal and to cover unit prices required.
   E.   By submitting a bid, the bidder understands and agrees that, if that proposal is accepted and the bidder fails to enter into a contract forthwith, the bidder shall be liable to the city for any damages the city may thereby suffer.
   F.   Bids may not be modified after submittal. Bidders may withdraw proposals either personally or by written request at any time before the hour set for the bid opening, but may not resubmit them. No proposal may be withdrawn or modified after the bid openings except if the award of contract has been delayed for a period more than 45 days.
5.   Basis of Award:
   A.   The City of Marengo reserves the right to waive any informality in or to reject any or all bids and to accept any bids deemed most favorable to the interest of the City after all bids have been examined and tabulated.
   B.   The City may award a contract on individual items within a particular group or upon the total group of items.
6.   Breakdown of Costs: Delivered and Installed: Include unit and total costs per item for the delivery of the item(s) (uncrated and blanket wrapped in padded vans and installation of the item(s) — optional) to their designated locations ready for use.
7.   Substitutions:
   A.   Certain materials and equipment are specified by a manufacturer or trade name to establish standards or quality and performance and not for the purpose of limiting competition. Bidders are invited to submit bids not only on named items but also on items that they propose for substitution of named items. Products of other manufacturers may be substituted if, in the opinion of the city, they are equal to those specified in quality, performance, design and
suitability for intended use. When two or more items are specified, the selection among those specified is the contractor’s option, or contractor may submit a bid on all such items.
   B.   Bids shall be based on materials and equipment included in the specifications. Substitutions for the purpose of evaluating bids will be considered only if proposed substitutions are set forth in a sealed bid and will only be accepted prior to the award of contract. The offer of substitutions shall be an integral part of the proposal, appearing immediately after all requested bids and before the signature of the bidder for the entire proposal.
   C.   Substitutions of materials other than those specified will not be considered in the base bid price. However, other substitutions may be listed in the specified place in the proposal form, with the indication of the change in the base bid price for the entire work.
   D.   In addition to the requirements heretofore mentioned, in order for substitutions to qualify for consideration, the following shall accompany each proposal:
      I.   Each proposed substitution shall be itemized showing manufacturer’s name, catalog number, quantity, unit cost and total cost. The bidder shall prepare the necessary forms to list his substitutions in the manner outlined.
      II.   Each proposal offering substitutions shall be accompanied by descriptive literature, catalog date, complete technical specifications and reports of all pertinent tests concerning the bidder’s proposed substitutions.
      III. Within five days after request by the city, each bidder offering substitutions shall deliver an assembled sample of each proposed substitution. Delivery charges shall be prepaid by the bidder.
   City of Marengo Proposal Form
   (To Be Submitted in Duplicate)
Project Identification Name:
Contractor’s Name:
Address:
Telephone Number:
1.   Cost of Work:
   The undersigned, having familiarized himself or herself with the conditions affecting the
cost of the work and its performance and having carefully examined and fully understood
Instructions to Bidders, hereby affirms and agrees to enter into a contract with the City of
Marengo, Marengo, Illinois.
   To provide, all supervision, labor, material, equipment and all other expense items to
perform completely the Entire Work covered by all specifications for the Entire Work.
For the lump sum of:                                                        Dollars ($
                                      )
Unit Price                                                        Total Price
                                          
2.   Costs:
The undersigned hereby affirms and states that the prices quoted herein constitute the total
cost to the city for all work involved in the respective items and that this cost also
includes all insurance, royalties, transportation charges, use of all tools and equipment,
superintendence, overhead expense, all profits and all other work services and conditions
necessarily involved in the work to be done and materials to be furnished in accordance with
the requirements of the contract documents considered severally and collectively. All bids
shall be held valid for a period of 45 days after the bid due date.
3.   Delivery Requirements:
The undersigned hereby affirms and states that the prices listed as “Delivered and
Installed” are the unit and total costs for the delivery of item(s) (uncrated and blanket
wrapped in padded vans and the installation of the item(s), optional) to their designated
locations ready for use.
4.   Time of Completion:
The undersigned affirms and declares that if awarded the Contract he or she will completely
perform said contract in strict accordance with its terms and conditions within
              consecutive calendar days after notification of award of contract.
5.   Specifications:
Furnish all labor, material, equipment and services necessary for said Contract, in
accordance with the following specifications and drawings (if required) as attached.
6.   Conditions:
   A.   I understand the city is exempt from Federal Excise Tax and the State Retailer’s
Occupation Tax. I hereby certify that this Proposal does not include any amounts of money
for these taxes.
   B.   To be valid, bids shall be itemized so that selection for purchase may be made,
there being included in the price of each item the cost of delivery, insurance, bonds,
overhead and profit.
   C.   The city reserves the right to add to or deduct from base bid and/or alternate bid
any item at the prices indicated in itemization of bid.
7.   Alternate Materials and Equipment:
   A.   Whenever, in any section of the contract document, any article, material or
equipment is defined by describing a proprietary product, by using the name of a
manufacturer of vendor, the specific article, material or equipment mentioned shall be
understood as indicating the type, function and equality desired and shall not be construed
in such a manner as to exclude manufacturer’s products or comparable quality, design and
efficiency as approved by the City Engineer.
   B.   All materials, construction procedures and methods within the contract documents set
for a minimum condition.
   C.   All materials furnished on this project shall bear the manufacturer’s guarantee that
materials furnished follows specifications as herein enumerated. No such material shall be
used on the project until such manufacturer’s or supplier’s guarantee shall be furnished in
writing to the City Engineer.
   D.   When requesting use of alternate materials or equipment, provide the following in
writing to the city and City Engineer:
      1.   Written request for approval.
      2.   Cost benefits and savings for the city.
      3.   Product description.
   E.   Requests shall be made in a timely fashion to allow for adequate review.
   F.   No alternate materials or equipment shall be ordered or installed without written
approval of the city.
Name   
By (signed)                                                        
Office                                                                
Address                                                            
                                                                        
Telephone No.                                                   
Date                                                                
(If a corporation) ATTEST:
                                                  
                                                 
Secretary
 
(Prior Code, § 18.15)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any bid and/or contract in contravention which results from
procedures in contravention or inconsistent with those set forth in §§
35.20 through
35.34 shall be void.
      (2)   Any person violating any portion of §§
35.20 through
35.34 shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense
and be responsible for the city’s cost of prosecution. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 18.15)
CHAPTER 36: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
Section
   
36.01   Adoption of state statutes
   
36.02   Office of Administrative Adjudication
   
36.03   Director
   
36.04   Compliance administrators
   
36.05   Administrative Law Judge
   
36.06   Notice of violation (non-vehicular)
   
36.07   Service (non-vehicular)
   
36.08   Administrative hearings
   
36.09   Defenses to building code violations
   
36.10   Sanctions applicable to owner; property
   
36.11   Subpoenas
   
36.12   Default; motion to set aside default judgment
   
36.13   Judicial review
   
36.14   Enforcement of judgment
   
36.15   Parking and standing of vehicles and the condition and use of vehicle
equipment
   
36.16   Election of remedies
   
36.17   Fines applicable to all offenses
§ 36.01 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   (A)   The city adopts 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., which authorizes a
corporate authorities of a municipality to create and implement a system of
administrative adjudication for code violations, and 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3 et
seq., which authorizes a municipality to create and implement a system of
administrative adjudication of violations of traffic regulations concerning the
standing, parking and condition of vehicles.
   (B)   The adoption of these statutes shall not preclude the city from using
other methods to enforce city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 45.01) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.02 OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION.
   (A)   Creation. An Office of Administrative Adjudication is established
pursuant to the authority of 65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq. and 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3
et seq., the function of which is to administer a system of administrative
adjudication provided for in this chapter. The Office of Administrative
Adjudication shall administer, manage and conduct administrative adjudication
proceedings in the manner provided for in this chapter. The creation of the
Office of Administrative Adjudication shall not preclude the city from using
other methods to enforce city ordinances. The Office of Administrative
Adjudication shall be comprised of the following individuals appointed by the
City Administrator:
      (1)   Hearing officer, who may also be referred to as an administrative
law judge;
      (2)   The Director of Public Safety or designee;
      (3)   The City Administrator;
      (4)   A code administrator; and
      (5)   Any person or persons deemed necessary for the efficient
administration of the Office of Administrative Adjudication.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The Office of Administrative Adjudication shall have the
authority to conduct the administrative adjudication of charges of all code
violations of this code, as amended, and vehicular standing, parking and
compliance violations, except the following:
      (1)   Any offense under the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et
seq., or this code governing the movement of vehicles;
      (2)   Any reportable offense under 625 ILCS 5/6-204;
      (3)   Violations punishable by a penalty of incarceration; and
      (4)   Violations punishable by a fine in excess of $750 per violation,
excluding allowable costs.
   (C)   Adjudication of matters. Charges of violations of this code, as
amended from time to time, and any other matter falling within the jurisdiction
of the Office of Administrative Adjudication shall be heard and adjudicated by
an Administrative Law Judge.
(Prior Code, § 45.02) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.03 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of the Office of Administrative Adjudication shall be the
City Administrator or designee, or an independent contractor or agency
contracted by the city to perform such duties as enumerated herein.
   (B)   The Director is authorized, empowered and directed to:
      (1)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing and parking regulation violations, vehicle compliance
violations, vehicle license or sticker requirement violations, building, fire
and health code violations and all other city ordinance violations as may be
permitted by law and directed by ordinance or this code;
      (2)   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or code, or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose
of this chapter;
      (3)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of liability;
      (4)   Certify copies of final determinations of building, fire and health
code violations or any other ordinance violation adjudicated pursuant to this
chapter and code;
      (5)   If also appointed as Traffic Compliance Administrator pursuant to §
36.15, certify copies of final determinations of vehicular standing and parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violations, vehicle license
or sticker requirement violations, and any factual reports verifying the final
determination of any violation liability which were issued in accordance with
this chapter or the laws of the state, including 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3, as from
time to time amended;
      (6)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the system of administrative adjudication hereby established;
      (7)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies that may be retained by the city or by filing citations in the 22nd
Judicial Circuit Court, or by selecting or appointing an individual or agency
to act on behalf of the city in filing citations, seeking judgments for unpaid
fines or penalties and pursuing all post-judgment remedies available under
current law; and
      (8)   Operate and maintain, or delegate the operation and maintenance of
any computer program(s) for the system of administrative adjudication hereby
established, on a day-to-day basis, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Inputting of violation notice information;
         (b)   Establishing hearing dates and notice dates;
         (c)   Recording fine and penalty assessment and payments;
         (d)   Issuing payment receipts;
         (e)   Issuing succeeding notices of hearing dates and/or final
determination of liability, issuing notices of immobilization, issuing notices
of impending impoundment and issuing notices of impending driver’s license
suspension as may be required, in accordance with the State Vehicle Code; and
         (f)   Keeping accurate records of appearances and non-appearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered and fines and other penalties assessed
and paid.
(Prior Code, § 45.03) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.04 COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATORS.
   The City Administrator, or designee, shall appoint Compliance Administrators
who are authorized to issue code violation notices and citations. Compliance
Administrators are any and all police and community service officers, building
code and property maintenance inspectors, supervisors in the Public Works
Department and any other person appointed to issue code violation notices and
citations.
(Prior Code, § 45.04) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.05 ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.
   (A)   Appointment. The City Administrator, with the advice and consent of
the City Council, shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to hear all matters
under this chapter. The Administrative Law Judge must be an attorney licensed
to practice law in this state for at least three years. In the event the
Administrative Law Judge is unavailable for any regular or special court date,
the City Administrator shall appoint a temporary Administrative Law Judge. The
temporary appointee must be an attorney licensed to practice law in this state
for at least three years.
   (B)   Training. Prior to conducting proceedings under this chapter,
Administrative Law Judges shall successfully complete a formal training program
that includes the following:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the hearings which they
will conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations they will
adjudicate;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Administrative Law
Judge shall include:
      (1)   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation;
      (2)   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses;
      (3)   Issuing subpoenas, at the request of any party or on the
Administrative Law Judge’s own motion for the appearance of witnesses or for
the production of relevant books, records or other information, subject to §
36.11;
      (4)   Regulating the course of the hearing in accordance with this
chapter, the rules and regulations adopted by the Office of Administrative
Adjudication or other applicable law;
      (5)   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (6)   Holding conferences for the settlement or simplifications of
issues;
      (7)   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include the fine, penalty or action with which the respondent
must comply;
      (8)   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation. However,
in no event shall the Administrative Law Judge have authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration, or impose a fine in excess of $50,000, or at the
option of the city, such other amount not to exceed the maximum amount
established by the Mandatory Arbitration System as prescribed by the Rules of
the State Supreme Court from time to time for the 22nd Judicial Circuit. The
maximum monetary fine under this section shall be exclusive of the costs of
enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with the city’s ordinances
and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax
imposed and collected by the city;
      (9)   Ordering a respondent to comply with the appropriate relevant code
section(s) that the respondent has been found liable of violating during the
course of the administrative hearing;
      (10)   Imposing, in addition to fines and costs assessed, costs related
to the enforcement of this code’s provisions for which the respondent has been
found liable; and
      (11)   Granting equitable relief as otherwise authorized by law or local
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 45.05) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NON-VEHICULAR).
   (A)   The form and manner of notice for a vehicular parking, standing and
compliance violation shall be as provided in §
36.15.
   (B)   All matters, excepting vehicular parking, standing and compliance
violations, to be adjudicated by the Office of Administrative Adjudication
shall be commenced against the party alleged to have violated one or more code
provision(s) by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document in
accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   Issuance of citation. The charging document for a violation of any
provision of this code subject to the system of administrative adjudication
provided in this chapter, other than vehicular parking, standing and compliance
violations, shall be issued by a city officer or employee as authorized in §
36.04, and served as provided for in §
36.07.
      (2)   Contents. The charging document shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name, city department and identification number, if
applicable, of the person issuing the charging instrument;
         (b)   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with
the violation;
         (c)   The name and address of the person to whom the charging document
is served upon if that person is not the respondent;
         (d)   The section(s) of the code alleged to have been violated;
         (e)   The date, time and place of the alleged violation(s);
         (f)   A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct
alleged to constitute a violation of each code section set forth in the
charging document; and
         (g)   The name of the complaining witness(es) if the violation was not
witnessed by the city officer or employee issuing the charging document.
      (3)   Certification. The city officer or employee issuing the charging
document shall certify the correctness of the information required by this
section by signing his or her name to the charging document.
      (4)   Prima facie evidence. Charging documents which comply with this
section will be sufficient to establish a prima facie case of liability for the
code violation charged.
      (5)   Hearing information. A charging document issued pursuant to this
section shall also set forth:
         (a)   The date, time and place of the adjudication hearing to be held
with respect to the violation;
         (b)   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing
will be held;
         (c)   The penalties for failure to appear at the hearing; and
         (d)   The fine to be paid within the time frame set forth in §
37.01, and/or noting that appearance is required on the hearing date.
(Prior Code, § 45.06) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.07 SERVICE (NON-VEHICULAR).
   (A)   The form and manner of service for a vehicular parking, standing and
compliance violation shall be as provided in §
36.15. A proceeding before the Administrative Law Judge shall be instituted
upon the filing of a written sworn pleading or citation by any authorized
official of the city, including police officers, code enforcement officers and
such other employees as authorized with the Office of Administrative
Adjudication.
   (B)   Respondents shall be served with a copy of the written sworn pleading
or citation along with a notice of the hearing in any manner reasonably
calculated to give them actual notice of the proceeding instituted against
them, including:
      (1)   Personal service upon a party or its employees or agents;
      (2)   Service by first class mail, certified mail return receipt
requested, or express mail at the party’s last known address; or
      (3)   Service by posting a copy of the sworn pleading or citation upon
the property when a structure is involved where the violation is found if
service on the owner cannot be made by mail. Posting shall be on the front door
of the structure not less than 20 days before the hearing is scheduled.
However, notice by posting shall not be effective notice if the property at
issue is a vacant lot or a vacant building.
(Prior Code, § 45.07) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.08 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that
for hearings scheduled in all non-emergency situations, if requested by the
respondent, the respondent shall have at least 15 days after service of process
to prepare for a hearing. For the purpose of this section, NON-EMERGENCY
SITUATION means any situation that does not reasonably constitute a threat to
the public interest, safety, health or welfare. If service is provided by mail,
the 15-day period shall begin to run on the day the notice is deposited in the
mail.
   (B)   All hearings shall be open to the public, shall be recorded and shall
be conducted before an Administrative Law Judge.
   (C)   Documentary evidence, including the notice of violation, citation and
attached exhibits, may be presented to the Administrative Law Judge.
   (D)   Respondents appearing at the hearing and their authorized agent or
counsel shall file with the Office of Administrative Adjudication a written
appearance on a form provided by the Office of Administrative Adjudication.
   (E)   All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
   (F)   The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in an
adjudicatory hearing authorized under this chapter. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   (G)   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses and cross-examine
opposing witnesses. Parties may request the Administrative Law Judge to issue
subpoenas to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the
production of relevant documents; however issuance of the subpoena shall be at
the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge where it is determined the
witness or documents are material and do not constitute a needless presentation
of cumulative or repetitive evidence.
   (H)   Continuances may be granted at the discretion of the Administrative
Law Judge upon a finding of good cause.
   (I)   Upon the conclusion of a hearing the Administrative Law Judge shall
issue a final determination of liability or no liability. No violation may be
established except by proof by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (J)   Upon issuing a determination of liability, the Administrative Law
Judge may impose penalties and/or fines that are consistent with applicable
provisions of this code, impose a term of community service, assess costs
reasonably related to instituting the administrative adjudication proceeding,
if applicable, order the respondent to immediately correct the violation and
impose any other penalties or remedies available at law.
   (K)   Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from a violation
shall constitute a final disposition of that violation.
(Prior Code, § 45.08) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.09 DEFENSES TO BUILDING CODE VIOLATIONS.
   Except for violations of the International Property Maintenance Code (as
adopted in §
150.01, as amended), it shall be a defense to a building code violation charged
if the owner, his or her attorney or any other agent or representative proves
to the Administrative Law Judge’s satisfaction that:
   (A)   The building code violation alleged in the citation does not in fact
exist or, at the time of the hearing, the violation has been remedied or
removed;
   (B)   The building code violation has been caused by the current property
occupants and, in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such violation, including filing civil action to evict current
occupants, the current occupants continue to cause the violation; or
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his or her agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of
correcting the building code violation.
(Prior Code, § 45.09) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.10 SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER; PROPERTY.
   The order to correct a building code violation, and the sanction imposed by
the city as the result of a finding of a building code violation under this
chapter, shall attach to the property as well as to the owner of the property
so that a finding of a building code violation against one owner cannot be
avoided by conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any
subsequent transferee or owner of the subject structure or property shall be
subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 45.10) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.11 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   Issuance. Issuance of a subpoena shall be at the discretion of the
Administrative Law Judge and shall only be enforceable for the attendance of
persons or the production of books, records or other documents that have a
relevant evidentiary connection with the subject matter and facts which are
relevant to the case and relate to a contested issue in the case. A party’s
request to an Administrative Law Judge for a subpoena must be timely. Service
of subpoenas shall be made in the same manner as summons in a civil action.
Issuance shall be based upon whether the evidence sought is relevant and
necessary to the defense of a violation, where without the issuance of the
subpoena, the defense could not otherwise be established by the requesting
party.
   (B)   Content. A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      (1)   The person to whom it is directed;
      (2)   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any; and
      (3)   The date, time and place for the appearance of the witnesses and
the production of the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   (C)   Appearance. The date identified for the appearance of the witnesses or
the production of the documents or other items shall not be less than seven
days after subpoena service.
   (D)   Contesting a subpoena.
      (1)   Within five business days of being served with a subpoena issued in
accordance with this chapter, the person or entity to whom the subpoena is
directed may contest the issuance of the subpoena by filing a written motion
with the Office of Administrative Adjudication, and with proper notice to all
parties.
      (2)   The motion shall specify the grounds therefore and shall be heard
by an Administrative Law Judge on the return date indicated on the subpoena, or
at the next hearing date scheduled for the case, whichever occurs earlier.
(Prior Code, § 45.11) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.12 DEFAULT; MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Default. The Administrative Law Judge may find a respondent in default
if the respondent, his or her attorney or authorized representative fails to
appear at a hearing where proper service of notice of the hearing has been
provided to the respondent, in accordance with this chapter, and where there is
not a finding of good cause by the Administrative Law Judge for the
respondent’s absence. Upon a finding of default, the hearing shall then proceed
in absence of the respondent and evidence may be accepted relevant to the code
violation. A copy of the findings, decision and order resulting from the
hearing shall be served on the respondent within five days after it is issued.
   (B)   Motion to set aside default judgment. The Administrative Law Judge may
set aside any judgment entered by default and set a new hearing date, upon a
petition filed by the respondent within 21 days after the issuance of the order
of default, if the Administrative Law Judge determines that the respondent’s
failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause, or at any time if the
respondent establishes, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the city did
not provide proper service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to
this section, the Administrative Law Judge shall have authority to enter an
order extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing
the city as a result of the vacated default judgment. When a judgment is
vacated, the Administrative Law Judge shall proceed immediately with a new
hearing on the underlying violation(s) as soon as practical.
(Prior Code, § 45.12) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.13 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any final decision by an Administrative Law Judge that a code violation does
or does not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of
judicial review and shall be subject to review under the State Administrative
Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 45.13) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.14 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the State Administrative
Review Law are a debt due and owing the city and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. Additionally, after expiration of the period in which
judicial review under the State Administrative Review Law may be sought for a
final determination of a code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision and order of the Administrative Law Judge
may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (A)   Failure to comply; costs of enforcement. In any case in which a
respondent has failed to comply with a judgment ordering that respondent to
correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a result of
a code violation, any expenses incurred by the city to enforce the judgment
entered against that respondent, including, but not limited to, attorneys’
fees, court and administrative hearing officer fees and costs related to
property demolition or foreclosure, repair and/or enclosure of dangerous or
unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings, costs for the removal
of garbage, debris and other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or
materials from buildings or other real property after they are fixed by a court
of competent jurisdiction or an Administrative Law Judge, shall be a debt due
and owing the city and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
Prior to any expenses being fixed by the Administrative Law Judge pursuant to
this section, the city shall provide a notice to the respondent that states the
respondent shall appear at a hearing before the Administrative Law Judge to
determine whether the respondent has failed to comply with the judgment. The
notice shall set the date for such hearing, which shall not be less than seven
days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the
seven-day period shall begin to run on the date the notice was deposited in the
mail.
   (B)   Lien. Upon being recorded in the manner required by Article XII of the
State Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.), or by the Uniform
Commercial Code (810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.), a lien shall be imposed on the real
estate or personal estate, or both, of the respondent in the amount of any debt
due and owing the city under this code. The lien may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Denial of services. If the respondent fails to pay any debt due and
owing the city as described in this section within 14 days after service of the
notice of debt, the city may take the following actions in addition to any debt
collection authorized by law:
      (1)   Decline to issue, renew or provide any license, permit, zoning
variance or permission applied for or requested by respondent under any code or
ordinance of the city until the respondent pays such debt; or
      (2)   Decline to issue or renew residential parking permits, temporary
residential parking permits or passes or any other permit required and applied
for by the respondent under any code or ordinance of the city, until the
respondent pays such debt.
(Prior Code, § 45.14) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.15 PARKING AND STANDING OF VEHICLES AND THE CONDITION AND USE OF VEHICLE
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   This section shall be applicable to violations of city ordinances
regulating the parking and standing of vehicles and the condition and use of
vehicle equipment.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE VIOLATION. A violation of a city ordinance or code governing
the condition or use of equipment on a vehicle.
      TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or designee.
      VEHICLE CODE. The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
      VIOLATION NOTICE. A violation notice issued pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-
208.3 and the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Traffic Compliance Administrator. Unless otherwise designated by the
City Administrator, the Director of the Office of Administrative Adjudication
shall serve as the Traffic Compliance Administrator. The Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Operate an administrative adjudication system for the adjudication
of violations of city ordinances regulating the parking and standing of
vehicles and the condition and use of vehicle equipment;
      (2)   Adopt, distribute and process violations of city ordinances
regulating the parking and standing of vehicles and the condition and use of
vehicle equipment and other notices required by 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3; and
      (3)   Collect money paid as fines and penalties for violations of city
ordinances regulating the parking and standing of vehicles and the condition
and use of vehicle equipment.
   (D)   Administrative Law Judge. The adjudication of all notices of violation
of city ordinances regulating the parking and standing of vehicles and the
condition and use of vehicle equipment shall be conducted by an Administrative
Law Judge conforming to all provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Issuance of citation. Police and community service officers shall have
the authority to issue notices of violation for any vehicular parking, standing
or compliance violation.
   (F)   Notice requirements. A violation notice shall include:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the violation;
      (2)   The particular regulation violated;
      (3)   The fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
      (4)   The vehicle make and state registration number;
      (5)   The identification number of the person issuing the notice;
      (6)   The payment of the indicated fine, and any applicable penalty for
late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation;
      (7)   Information on the availability of a hearing in which the violation
may be contested on its merits; and
      (8)   The time and manner in which a hearing will be held.
   (G)   Service.
      (1)   The original or a facsimile of the notice shall be affixed to the
vehicle or by handing the notice to the operator of a vehicle if present.
      (2)   When Traffic Compliance Administrators issue violation notices,
they shall certify the correctness of the facts on the violation notice by
signing their name to the notice at the time of service. The original or a
facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator. A record of the proceeding shall be kept in the ordinary course
of business.
      (3)   A violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance with
this section, or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall
be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
The notice shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceedings.
      (4)   Service of additional notices may be sent by first class United
States mail, postage prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the
cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State, or, under 625 ILCS 5/11-
1306, to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the last address known to the
lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease. If notice to that address is
returned as undeliverable, service shall be to the last known address recorded
in a United States postal service database. The service shall be deemed
complete as of the date of deposit with the United States postal service.
      (5)   A second notice of violation shall include:
         (a)   The date and location of the violation cited in the violation
notice;
         (b)   The particular regulation violated;
         (c)   The vehicle make and state registration number;
         (d)   The fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
         (e)   The method in which a hearing to contest the violation on its
merits may be obtained by the respondent, and the time and manner in which the
hearing may be requested;
         (f)   A statement that failure either to pay the fine and any
applicable penalty or to appear at the scheduled hearing will result in a final
determination of violation liability for the cited violation in the amount of
the fine and penalty indicated; and
         (g)   A statement that, upon the occurrence of a final determination
of violation liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or failure to
exhaust, available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid
fine or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the city.
      (6)   A notice of final determination of parking, standing and compliance
violation liability shall be issued following a final determination of parking,
standing and compliance violation liability and the conclusion of the judicial
review procedures taken pursuant to this section. The notice shall:
         (a)   State the unpaid fine or penalty is a debt due and owing the
city; and
         (b)   Contain warnings that failure to pay any fine or penalty due and
owing the city within the time specified may result in the city filing a
petition in the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court to have the unpaid fine or penalty
rendered a judgment as provided by this section, or may result in suspension of
the person’s driver’s license for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or
more parking violations under 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5.
      (7)   A notice of impending driver’s license suspension shall:
         (a)   Be sent to the person liable for any fine or penalty that
remains due and owing on ten or more parking violations;
         (b)   State that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within 45
days of the notice’s date will result in the city notifying the Secretary of
State that the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings
under 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5;
         (c)   State that the person may obtain a photostatic copy of an
original ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-addressed, stamped
envelope to the city with a request for a copy; and
         (d)   Be sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to
the address recorded with the Secretary of State or, if any notice to that
address is returned as undeliverable, to the last known address recorded in a
United States postal service approved database.
   (H)   Evidence rules. An opportunity for a hearing for the registered owner
of the vehicle cited in the violation notice in which the owner may contest the
merits of the alleged violation, and during which formal or technical rules of
evidence shall not apply; provided, however, that under 625 ILCS 5/11-1306, the
lessee of a vehicle cited in the violation notice shall be provided an
opportunity for a hearing as afforded the registered owner.
   (I)   Defenses. 
      (1)   For matters relating to parking and standing of vehicles and the
condition and use of vehicle equipment, the Administrative Law Judge may
consider in defense of a violation:
         (a)   The motor vehicle, or registration plates, of the motor vehicle
was stolen before the violation occurred and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation;
         (b)   The relevant required signs prohibiting or restricting parking
were missing or obscured;
         (c)   The facts alleged in the parking, standing or compliance
violation notice are not correct, are materially inconsistent or do not support
a finding that the specified regulation was violated; and
         (d)   Any other evidence or issues provided by city ordinance.
      (2)   To demonstrate that the motor vehicle, or the registration plates,
was stolen before the violation occurred and was not under the control or
possession of the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit
proof that a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
   (J)   Final determination of violation liability. A final determination of
violation liability shall occur following failure to pay the fine and any
applicable penalty, or to appear at a hearing on the merits, and upon the
exhaustion of the administrative review procedures. When a person fails to
appear at his or her scheduled hearing to contest an alleged violation, the
Administrative Law Judge’s determination of violation liability shall become
final:
      (1)   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination;
or
      (2)   Upon expiration of the period for filing the petition without a
filing having been made.
   (K)   Appeals.
      (1)   A petition to void a determination may be filed by a person owing
an unpaid fine or penalty and shall be filed within 30 days of the finding of
liability and shall be ruled upon by the Administrative Law Judge. The grounds
for such a petition are limited to:
         (a)   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on
the date the violation notice was issued;
         (b)   The person had paid the fine or penalty for the violation in
question; or
         (c)   Excusable failure to appear at or request a date for a hearing.
      (2)   When it has been determined there is just cause, the registered
owner shall be provided with a hearing on the merits for the violation.
   (L)   Procedures for nonresidents. If an alleged violator does not reside
within the city, the violation may be contested in writing pursuant to the
notice of violation. In such circumstances, the nonresident may submit his or
her position, in writing, signed and under oath, to the Administrative Law
Judge, setting forth the reasons why a finding of liability should not be
entered and why the issuance of the violation was improper. Said written
challenge must be submitted not less than 14 days prior to the hearing as noted
on the notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 45.15) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.16 ELECTION OF REMEDIES.
   In no case may the Office of Administrative Adjudication conduct an
administrative adjudication proceeding for an alleged violation of this code
where the remedy provided is a punishment of imprisonment; provided, however,
where a violation of the code is punishable by fines and other penalties in
addition to imprisonment, the city may elect to institute an action with the
Office of Administrative Adjudication and waive any imprisonment for the code
violation. Nothing in this section, however, shall preclude the city from
seeking the remedy of imprisonment in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 45.16) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
§ 36.17 FINES APPLICABLE TO ALL OFFENSES.
   Ordinance and code violations that may be heard in an administrative
adjudication as set forth in this chapter shall carry the fines listed in this
code, with the maximum fines being $750 for non-parking violations or as
provided for in the state statutes, whichever is greater, and $250 for parking
violations or as provided for in the state statues, whichever is greater.
(Prior Code, § 45.17) (Ord. 25-6-1, passed 6-23-2025)
CHAPTER 37: SCHEDULE OF FINES
Section
   
37.01   Schedule of fines
§ 37.01 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Payments. Any of the following described offenses may be settled and
compromised in the following manner: Settlement payment when made within seven
days of the time a notice is delivered to the offender, as listed in Column A,
and settlement payment when made within 14 days of the time a notice is
delivered to the offender, as listed in Column B. Provided, however, this
settlement and compromise procedure shall not be allowed where the offender has
violated the same ordinance two previous times within 12 consecutive months.
Offense Column A Column B
Offense                                                                  Column Column
                                                                         A      B
Alcoholic beverages, §                                                  $100   $200
130.02
Building violations, other than listed in                                $100   $300
Chapter 150
Cannabis, possession over 21 years of age, §
131.25(A)(2) and (A)(3)
   First offense                                                      $100   $200
   Second offense in a 12-month period                                $200   $400
   Third and any subsequent offense in a 12-month period              $300   $600
Cannabis, possession under 21 years of age, §                           $100   $200
131.25(A)(1)
Cannabis, use, §
131.25(C)
   First offense                                                      $100   $200
   Second offense in a 12-month period                                $200   $400
   Third and any subsequent offense in a 12-month period              $300   $600
Consumption on premises, drinking on public streets, §                  $50    $100
115.34(B)
Curfew, §                                                               $25    $50
131.16
Damaging property, §                                                    $100   $200
131.09
Disorderly conduct, §                                                   $100   $200
131.01
Dogs and other animals,                                                  $50    $100
Chapter 93
Drug paraphernalia, §                                                   $100   $200
130.03
Failure to display a vehicle license, Title VII                          $150   $300
Failure to have a building permit,                                       $150   $300
Chapter 150
Failure to have a vehicle license, Title VII                             $150   $300
False alarm, §                                                          $25    $50
92.10
Fireworks, §                                                            $25    $50
131.06
Garage sale, §                                                          $25    $50
110.15
Liquor, sale to persons under 21 years of age, §                        $200   $400
115.47
Littering, §                                                            $25    $50
131.10
Noise, §                                                                $75    $150
131.08
Numbering buildings, per day, §                                         $25    $50
152.21
Open burning, §                                                         $100   $200
92.09
Parental responsibility, §                                              $100   $200
131.17
Parking,
Chapter 71, except as provided in                                        $25    $50
Chapter 74, Schedule III
Parking,                                                                 $10    $25
Chapter 74, Schedule III
Parks and playgrounds,
Chapter 90, except for §§                                              $25    $50
90.02 through
90.06
Parks and playgrounds, §§
90.02 through                                                            $100   $200
90.06
Persons responsible for unlawful activities on their premises, §        $100   $200
130.04
Raffle, §                                                               $50    $100
110.16
Scavengers, recyclables and refuse,                                      $25    $50
Chapter 114
Sign code,                                                               $25    $50
Chapter 151
Soliciting without a permit, §                                          $500   $750
112.03
Street gang activity, §                                                 $100   $200
130.01
Streets, deposit of dirt and mud, §                                     $50    $100
150.15(C)
Tobacco products, possession under 21 years of age, §§
131.15 and
131.99
   First offense                                                      $25    $50
   Second offense in a 12-month period, after first offense           $50    $100
   Third and any subsequent offense in a 12-month period, after first $100   $200
offense
Alternate tobacco products, possession under 21 years of age, §
131.15(E)(1) or (E)(4)
   First offense                                                      $25    $50
   Second offense in a 12-month period, after first offense           $50    $100
   Third and any subsequent offense in a 12-month period, after first $100   $200
offense
Traffic,                                                                 $25    $50
Chapter 70
Trespassing, §                                                          $25    $50
131.11
Unauthorized use of parking space for persons with disabilities,         $250   $500
Chapter 74, Schedule IV
Water, emergency limitations, §                                         $25    $50
50.13
Weapons, §                                                              $100   $200
131.05
Weed, grass nuisance, §                                                 $25    $50
92.08
 
   (B)   Settlements. Settlement payments shall be made to the City Police
Department who shall provide the alleged offender with a receipt in the amount
of such payment.
   (C)   Disposition of payments. The amounts paid to the City Police
Department in settlement of the foregoing claims shall be promptly deposited by
the City Police Department with the City Treasurer and shall be credited by the
Treasurer to the General Fund.
   (D)   Prosecution. The city shall refrain from prosecuting any alleged
offender of the foregoing offenses after receipt of such settlement payment.
(Prior Code, § 1.07) (Ord. 01-10-6, passed - -; Ord. 02-2-2, passed - -; Ord.
06-8-1, passed - -; Ord. 09-7-2, passed - -; Ord. 20-01-01, passed - -; Ord.
23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND WASTEWATER DIVISION
      
51.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
52.   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND WASTEWATER DIVISION
Section
   
50.01   Combined Division; Superintendent; duties
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Billing
   
50.04   Debt service charges for multiple connections
   
50.05   Disposition of revenues
   
50.06   Accounts
   
50.07   Filing regulations
   
50.08   Termination of service, notice, hearing
   
50.09   Reinstatement of service
   
50.10   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.11   Applicability
   
50.12   Shutting off water
   
50.13   Emergency limitations of use of water
   
50.14   Meters and samplers required
   
50.15   Access to equipment
   
50.16   Damage to equipment and property
   
50.17   Use of water facilities required
   
50.18   Private water supply
   
50.19   Tapping water mains
   
50.20   Water service pipe
   
50.21   Building service pipe
   
50.22   Separate services required
   
50.23   Discontinuing water service
   
50.24   Fire hydrants
   
50.25   Water service charge
   
50.26   Extension of public sanitary sewers or water mains
   
50.27   Wastes
   
50.28   Use of sewers required
   
50.29   Private wastewater treatment facilities
   
50.30   Connections to the wastewater facilities
   
50.31   Building sewers
   
50.32   Wastes admissible to the wastewater facilities
   
50.33   Wastes inadmissible to the wastewater facilities
   
50.34   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.35   Pretreatment
   
50.36   User charge
   
50.37   Debt service and other costs
   
50.38   Wastewater service charge
   
50.39   Water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer uses outside corporate limits
   
50.40   Water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer uses for automobile service,
repair and fuel dispensing properties
   
50.41   Limitations on discharge of wastewater
   
50.42   Surcharge for illegal connections or uninspected property
   
50.43   Well setback zone
   
50.44   Annual water and sewer rate and fee adjustment
   
50.45   Water and wastewater capital asset maintenance and replacement fee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 COMBINED DIVISION; SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established for the city a combined Water
and Wastewater Division, hereinafter called “the Division.”
(Prior Code, § 25.01)
   (B)   Superintendent. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent shall be in
charge of the Division and shall oversee the activities of the Division. The
Superintendent shall directly report to the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 25.02)
   (C)   Duties of the Division. The Division shall be in charge of all matters
relating to the water facilities and the wastewater facilities, including the
connection thereto and the extension thereof.
(Prior Code, § 25.03)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Equipment definitions.
      BUFFALO BOX. Also called a B-BOX or CURB STOP BOX, a small, typically
cylindrical enclosure located near the property line, usually at or below
ground level. It houses a stop cock that connects the municipal water main to a
property’s water service line.
      CORPORATION STOP. The valve threaded into the main, or the tapping
saddle, and appurtenances (i.e., anything pertaining to the valve or tapping
saddle) that allow you to connect the service line to the city’s main.
      CURB STOP. Also known as a CURB VALVE, or CURB STOP COCK, or STOP COCK. A
type of valve used in water supply systems to control the flow of water to a
property or building. It is typically located at or near the property line,
where the water main from the municipal water supply system connects to the
water service line that leads to a home or business.
      WATER SERVICE PIPE. The water service line includes the piping that
carries water from the city water main which is usually located in the street
to the inside of the house where the pipe connects to the meter.
(Prior Code, § 25.04)
   (B)   General definitions.
      ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.),
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972 (Pub.
Law No. 92-500) and Pub. Law No. 93-234. All rules and regulations promulgated
under authority of the Act are made part of this chapter by reference.
      AVERAGE DRY WEATHER FLOW. The average daily flow for the lowest three-
month period in the previous calendar year.
      AVERAGE WET WEATHER FLOW. The average daily flow for the highest month in
the previous calendar year.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from the soil, wastes and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension of the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and
stormwater or surface water.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, fecal
coliform bacteria, compounds, plus additional pollutants identified in the
NPDES permit issued to the city.
      DIVISION. The combined Water and Wastewater Division of the city.
      DOMESTIC OR RESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of the wastewater facilities not
classed as an industrial user.
      DOMESTIC WASTES, DOMESTIC WASTEWATER or SANITARY WASTES. Wastewater
derived principally from dwellings, but also includes all wastewater derived
from plumbing fixtures located in commercial or industrial users.
      DWELLING OR RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. A unit designed for occupancy by
one family. It may be a house designed for the exclusive use of one family or
it may be a portion of a building designed and intended to be used by one
family.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for a specific use of land owned by
others.
      ESTIMATED FLOW FROM DOMESTIC USERS. The estimated wastewater flow from
single-family dwellings where private water systems are used. For the purpose
of this chapter, the contribution per dwelling unit shall be 350 gallons per
day.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
      IEPA. The State Environmental Protection Agency. All rules and
regulations established by the IEPA are made a part of this chapter by
reference.
      INCIDENTAL REMOVAL OR INCIDENTAL TO. The removal of a constituent for
which no capital or operating or maintenance costs are expended.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible
pollutant.
      INFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the city’s wastewater
facilities, its treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use
or disposal; and therefore is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit
or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder, or
any more stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II, commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; any state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 6941; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and
the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et
seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
      INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Any non-governmental user of the wastewater treatment facilities
identified in the S.I.C. Manual under the following divisions:
            1.   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B: Mining;
            3.   Division D: Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
            5.   Division I: Services.
         (b)   The user in the divisions listed above may be excluded if it is
determined by the city that it will introduce primary segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from plumbing fixtures.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES or INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid wastes from
industrial processes, as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
      INSPECTION MANHOLE. A 48-inch diameter or larger manhole, installed on a
user’s property which is continuously accessible to the Division for inspection
or sampling.
      LIABILITY. Whenever reference is made to “secure and protect the city
from any liability or damage,” it shall include all authorized employees and
agents of the city as well as the elected and appointed officials.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the wastewater
treatment facilities of the city that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the average dry weather flow;
         (c)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); and
         (d)   If found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with
the issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MAXIMUM WET WEATHER FLOW. The average daily flow for the maximum week in
the month used to determine the average wet weather flow.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). A permit or
equivalent document or requirements issued by the Administrator or, where
appropriate, by the IEPA, after enactment of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
§ 402 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
      NEW WASTEWATER SOURCE. Any source constructed after the adoption of this
chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, additions to a dwelling unit shall
not be considered a new source.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER. Normal domestic wastewater shall contain the
following constituents at the strengths indicated:
 
BOD 200 mg/l
SS  240 mg/l
 
      P. Phosphorus or phosphorus compounds.
      PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the city’s wastewater facilities
into waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone
or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause
of a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES permit, including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns or taxing body.
      pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. Any device or equipment normally located in a dwelling
unit from which wastewater is discharged.
      POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes or preparing foods.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before
introduction into the wastewater facilities.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer owned by the city.
      REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary to maintain the capacity and
performance during the service life of the treatment facilities for which such
facilities were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
includes REPLACEMENT.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface waters that are
not admitted intentionally.
      SERVICE LIFE. The period of time during which a component of the
facilities will be capable of performing a function.
      S.I.C. MANUAL. The Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972,
Executive Office of the President, Office Management and Budget.
      SUBSTANTIAL REMOVAL. In general means the removal of at least 80%.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Water and Wastewater Superintendent.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension of water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
      UNIT OF FLOW. A unit of flow for billing purposes shall be 1,000 gallons.
      USEPA. The United State Environmental Protection Agency.
      USER. Any person or persons making connection to water and/or wastewater
facilities of the city. Where a single meter serves multiple users or
residential units, each use or residential unit is considered a USER for the
purpose of computing fees and charges, except for administrative fees, which
shall be paid based on the number of meters.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of the community. From the standpoint of
source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
      WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
      WASTEWATER SOURCE or WASTE SOURCE. Any installation, process or equipment
from which there is or may be a discharge of pollutants.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES. An arrangement of devices and structures
for treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
      WATER COURSE.
         (a)   A natural or artificial channel for passage of water;
         (b)   A running stream of water; and/or
         (c)   A natural stream fed from permanent or natural sources,
including rivers, creeks, runs and rivulets. There must be a stream, usually
flowing in a particular direction (though it need not flow continuously) in a
definite channel having a bed or banks and usually discharging into some other
stream or body of water.
      WATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, pump, treat and distribute water to the users.
      WATER AND WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. A charge for the use of and the
service supplied by the water and wastewater facilities of the city. The
SERVICE CHARGE shall consist of the user charge, the cost of any bond debt of
such facilities and such other costs as may be deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 25, Exhibit A)
(Ord. 22-3-3, passed - -; Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.03 BILLING.
   (A)   Duties. It is hereby made the duty of the utility billing clerk to
render bills for service and for all rates and charges in connection therewith
and to collect all moneys due thereon.
(Prior Code, § 25.05)
   (B)   Manner of billing for the use of the water and wastewater facilities.
      (1)   Billings.
         (a)   A bill shall be rendered for the use of the water and wastewater
facilities. Billings shall be made not less than quarterly.
         (b)   Where charges are to be recomputed annually, said charges shall
become effective for all water purchased or wastewater treated during the
period to which the rate applies.
      (2)   Penalty. A penalty of 10% shall be added to each bill not paid
within 30 days after the rendition of the bills.
      (3)   Multiple meters. Single users with multiple water meters or flow
meters shall be rendered a single bill.
      (4)   Liability for service. The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service on such premises and the service is furnished to the
premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 25.06)
   (C)   Billing procedures.
      (1)   (a)   Water and sewer user service charges shall be billed every
three months. Despite the joint liability of property owners, occupants and
users, the bills for such service shall be sent to the property owners. It
shall be the responsibility of the property owner to make prompt payment of the
bill without regard to any agreements the property owner may have with his, her
or their tenant regarding payment procedures. Although the city shall also have
the right to seek collection from, and take action against, users and occupants
for the nonpayment of said bills, the city shall follow a policy of, in any
event, demanding direct and prompt payment from property owners and shall take
such action as is legal and appropriate to enforce and compel payment by said
property owners, including exercise of the city’s legal right to terminate and
shut of service.
         (b)   Said bills shall be sent to said property owners on or after the
first day of the month succeeding the billing period for which the service is
billed, and payment shall be due on the first day of the following month. If
payment of the entire amount of said bill for water and/or sewer charges is not
received by the city on or before the first day of the following month after
the billing date, then a late payment charge of 10% of the unpaid balance of
the bill shall be added and become due and payable.
      (2)   The property owners, the occupant thereof and the user of the water
and/or sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for such
service to such premises, and such service is furnished to the premises by the
city only upon the condition that the property owner, occupant and user of such
service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
      (3)   In the event the water and/or sewer charges, including any late
payment charges then due, are not paid by the first day of the following month
after the date of billing, such charges and late payment charges shall be
deemed to be delinquent, and the city shall have the following remedies, which,
except as otherwise provided in this division (C), shall be cumulative and not
mutually exclusive:
         (a)   To terminate water service to any premises for which water and/
or sewer charges are delinquent, upon notice to the property owner and occupant
as provided in §
50.08;
         (b)   To file a notice of lien with the County Recorder of Deeds
against any premises for which water and/or sewer charges are delinquent, in
the amount of said delinquent charges, and to foreclose on said lien in the
manner provided in §
50.08; and
         (c)   To sue the owner, occupant or user of any premises for which
water and/or sewer charges are delinquent in a civil action to recover moneys
due in the amount of said delinquent charges, plus court costs and reasonable
attorneys’ fees.
      (4)   The city may require that bills be paid in cash in the event two
checks are returned to the city due to insufficient funds within a 12-month
period. In the event that a check cannot be processed because the account
holder has non-sufficient funds (NSF), the city will charge a $25 NSF fee.
(Prior Code, § 25.11) (Ord. 23-5-1, passed 5-8-2023)
§ 50.04 DEBT SERVICE CHARGES FOR MULTIPLE CONNECTIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a MULTIPLE UNIT USER is defined as any
additional number of residential or commercial units located on the same
premises and being served through a single water meter or sewer connection
where there is no separate water meters for each such residential or commercial
unit, such as an apartment building, mobile home court or commercial and
residential units located within the same building. In all such cases, there
shall be an additional debt service charge, as required in §§
50.25 and
50.30, for each additional unit provided with water service and/or sewer
service and served by a single connection. The additional debt service charges
for each unit shall be added to the quarterly billing.
(Prior Code, § 25.07)
§ 50.05 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   (A)   Water and sewer charges. All revenues and moneys derived from the
water and sewer charges shall be held by the Treasurer separate and apart from
all other funds of the city.
   (B)   Tapping fees. All revenues and moneys derived from tapping fees shall
be deposited in the Water and Wastewater Improvement Fund. Said fund shall be
used solely for the improvement, extension or the betterment of the water and
wastewater facilities.
   (C)   Meter fees. Meter fees shall be deposited in the Water and Sewer
Operating Fund.
(Prior Code, § 25.08)
§ 50.06 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the Division and at regular
annual intervals shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing
concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the Division.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall maintain such records as necessary to document
compliance by the city with the Act for the user charge system.
(Prior Code, § 25.09)
§ 50.07 FILING REGULATIONS.
   A copy of the provisions of this chapter relating to water and wastewater
service charges shall be filed in the office of the Clerk and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of their liability for service supplied to
any users of the service of the combined water and wastewater facilities of the
city on their properties.
(Prior Code, § 25.10)
§ 50.08 TERMINATION OF SERVICE, NOTICE, HEARING.
   (A)   Delinquent accounts.
      (1)   In the event any sewer or water bill remains unpaid for 30 days
after the charges have been billed, a penalty of 10% of the delinquency amount
shall be added to the charges. If, after a period of 60 days from the original
date of billing, any water and/or sewer charges, plus the 10% penalty, remain
unpaid, or if an actual water meter has not been read for 12 consecutive
months, the Water and Wastewater Division shall deliver personally, or mail
notice, to the property owner, if known to the city, and any occupant being
billed for services to the premises for which water and/or sewer charges remain
unpaid, informing them of:
         (a)   The amount of the default, including a $30 administrative fee,
the period of service for which said charges are claimed to be due;
         (b)   The fact that an actual water meter reading has not been
obtained in 12 consecutive months; and
         (c)   Advising them that they have the right to request a hearing
regarding the delinquency claimed or failed attempt to read the water meter
before the General Administration Committee.
      (2)   The notice shall provide that the occupants and the property owner
may appear before the General Administration Committee at City Hall on a date
not less than seven days from the date of the mailing of the notice for a
hearing regarding the delinquent charges, any dispute with regard thereto or
the failed attempt to read the water meter.
   (B)   Hearing process. All requests for a hearing are to be made in writing
at City Hall within 14 days of the mailing of the delinquency notice. All
requests for a hearing should be delivered in person to City Hall during
regular business hours (Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.), at
which time a date for the hearing will be scheduled. All hearing requests must
cite a valid claim or dispute regarding the charges. Valid claims or disputes
include, but are not limited to, the following: broken water meter, leak in
water pipes and the like. Financial hardship or inability to pay is not a valid
claim or dispute. The hearing shall be conducted informally but may, with the
mutual consent of the parties, be recorded by suitable sound reproduction
equipment. Any and all written documents, memoranda or other tangible exhibits
offered by the owner, the occupant or the user shall become part of the record
of the hearing.
   (C)   Termination of service. After the proceedings outlined in this section
have been followed, or in the event that the charges for service are not fully
paid within 75 days after the charges have been billed, water service may be
terminated by the city if the water and/or sewer charges set forth in the
notice remain unpaid or if the city has not obtained an actual reading of the
water meter.
   (D)   Termination; repairs. In the event termination requires any repairs to
the curb stop cock, the cost of such repairs shall be the responsibility of the
city. Should a city employee be sent to a property to turn off the water or
make a repair, and the curb stop cock is located on private property, the city
reserves the right to access the curb stop cock on said private property to
either shut off the water or make a repair. However, if the damage to the curb
stop cock or buffalo box is determined to be caused by the property owner, the
cost of such repairs shall be borne by the property owner.
   (E)   Liens. In the event the charges for service are not fully paid within
60 days after the charges have been billed, such charges shall be deemed and
hereby declared to be delinquent, and therefore such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate. The Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds. The filing of such statements shall be deemed
notice.
   (F)   Occupancy. In the event that such charge remains unpaid after the
posting of the notice of delinquency and services have been terminated, the
city may declare the building receiving said services unfit for human
occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 25.12) (Ord. 23-5-1, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 24-11-6, passed 5-8-
2023; Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.09 REINSTATEMENT OF SERVICE.
   Upon payment to the city of the full delinquency amount, plus the 10%
penalty, the administrative fee of $30 and a reinstatement of service fee of
$100, the city shall reinstate the service or issue a permit for the service to
be reinstated. If a permit is issued to reinstate the service, the owner of the
premises or the occupant and user of the service, shall pay all costs necessary
to reinstate the service, including inspection and supervision costs incurred
by the city. In the event reinstatement does not take place during regular
Water and Wastewater Division business hours (Monday through Friday, 7:00 a.m.
to 3:00 p.m.) the reinstatement of service fee will be increased to $150.
Reinstatement of service shall not occur between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. The city may require the balance due to be paid in cash.
(Prior Code, § 25.13) (Ord. 07-7-2, passed - -)
§ 50.10 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees or agents of
the city, bearing city identification which contains their photograph, shall be
permitted to enter all properties at reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. They shall have no authority to inquire into
any industrial process except as may have bearing on the use of water or the
kind of discharge to the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees or agents of
the city, bearing city identification which contains their photograph, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the public water and wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 25.14)
§ 50.11 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations of this chapter govern every user of the city water and
wastewater facilities and shall be part of the contract between the city and
every such user. In making application for water or sewer service every user
shall agree in writing to be bound thereby. It is the duty of the
Superintendent to enforce these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 25.15)
§ 50.12 SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new facilities, or
for any other reason, the Superintendent reserves the right to shut off the
water and keep it shut off as long as may be necessary to make such repairs,
alterations or the construction of new facilities. Prior to shutting off the
water, users shall be given adequate notice except in an emergency; and in such
case, the Superintendent shall provide notice as conditions permit. No claim
shall be made against the city by reason of the above or by reason of the
breakage or failure of any pump or other portion of the water system.
(Prior Code, § 25.16)
§ 50.13 EMERGENCY LIMITATIONS OF USE OF WATER.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor, public exigency may require it, he
or she shall have the right and authority, by proclamation, to limit in respect
to time or wholly suspend or prohibit for such length of time as such exigency
shall in his or her judgment require, the use of water for any nonessential
purpose, and no person shall use or draw water in violation of any such
proclamation. The city shall make reasonable efforts to publicize the
proclamation, including the posting of a notice at City Hall, advising the
media and all city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 25.17) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.14 METERS AND SAMPLERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water meters.
      (1)   No person shall be allowed to receive water from the city for any
purpose except fire protection without first having a proper water meter
installed to measure the amount of water consumed.
      (2)   Meters shall conform to specifications fixed by the Superintendent
as to size, capacity and construction. All meters shall be installed under the
direction and supervision of the Superintendent at a location approved by the
Superintendent.
      (3)   All meters to be initially installed in properties within the city
shall be paid for along with all other applicable fees at the time the building
permit is issued. Meter fees shall be established from time to time by the City
Council. For meters one and one-half inches and smaller, the meter fee shall be
sufficient to include the cost of the meter, installation, maintenance and
replacement thereof. For meters larger than one and one-half inches, the meter
fee shall be sufficient to include the cost of the meter, plus shipping and
handling and installation. Meter fees shall not be refunded. All meters shall
be purchased by the city and provided to the permit holder when requested.
      (4)   Meters one and one-half inch in size and smaller will be furnished
and installed by the city and shall be the property of the city. Meters that
are the property of the city shall be maintained, repaired or replaced by the
city at no cost to the user except as provided for herein.
      (5)   Meters larger than one and one-half inches will be installed by the
city and thereafter will become the property of the user. Meters owned by users
shall be maintained by the user at no cost to the city. Said user, however,
shall be required to maintain the meter so that the accuracy remains within 3%,
plus or minus, of original accuracy. The user shall file a meter calibration
report with the Superintendent annually.
      (6)   In the event a building contains more than one user, a meter is
hereby required for each user unless the building contains only residential
dwelling units and the use of a single meter for the building is approved by
the Superintendent.
      (7)   The cost of meters one and one-half inches and smaller and the
installation thereof shall be borne by the user. The cost shall be termed the
meter fee and shall be paid at the time application is made for water service.
Meter fees shall be established from time to time by the City Council and shall
be sufficient to include the cost of the meter, installation, maintenance and
replacement thereof. Meter fees shall not be refunded.
   (B)   Installation. No accessories or equipment other than the equipment
identified and on file with the Public Works Department shall be installed
within 12 inches of either side or in front of the water meter. The equipment
and installation method required for the automated meter reading will be
specified in a separate installation instruction packet available through the
Public Works Department.
   (C)   Flow meters. Any user except a domestic user may be required to
install a flow meter in the inspection manhole (see § 50.31(G)) to accurately
measure and record the rate of discharge of and the volume of wastewater
discharged to a public sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Any user, except a domestic user, may install a flow meter in the
inspection manhole to accurately measure and record the rate of discharge of
and the volume of wastewater discharged to a public sanitary sewer for billing
purposes, if approved by the Superintendent.
      (2)   Flow meters shall be a permanent installation and shall include
equipment to accurately indicate, record and total the flow and shall be
approved by the Superintendent prior to installation. The equipment required to
indicate, record and total the flow shall be located in a warm, dry, location
and be accessible for reading. The equipment shall be recalibrated a minimum of
once a year and a certificate of calibration filed with the Superintendent. The
user shall submit flow records to the Superintendent monthly.
   (D)   Samplers.
      (1)   Each industrial user and such other users except domestic users as
may be designated by the Superintendent shall be required to sample the
wastewater. The frequency of sampling shall be determined by the
Superintendent. The minimum frequency of sampling shall not be less than once a
year.
      (2)   Samples shall be tested for constituents determined by the
Superintendent by a commercial laboratory approved by the Superintendent and a
copy of the analysis sent to the Superintendent. The user shall pay all costs
of sampling and analysis.
   (E)   Private water supply charges. Whenever any portion of water pumped
from a private water supply is discharged to the wastewater facilities of the
city the user shall choose to either install a meter to measure the amount of
water pumped from the private water supply or pay a fixed amount charged for
non-metered users pursuant to §
50.38. Once a selection is made by the user, no change will be permitted
without City Council approval, upon written request by the user. In the event a
meter is chosen and installed, wastewater bills shall be based on the amount of
water pumped unless flow meters are approved as herein provided. Where flow
meters are approved the meter requirement may be waived by the City Council.
      (1)   All meters installed on private water supplies shall be purchased
and owned by the user and shall conform to all of the requirements of division
(A) above except that the maintenance required for meters one inch and under
shall not exceed the maintenance provided for city owned meters of the same
size.
      (2)   No person shall remove a private meter for the purpose of having it
repaired without first contacting the Superintendent and having the meter read
before it is removed and after it has been replaced. All meters shall be
repaired through the city or by persons approved by the city. Whenever a meter
is removed a replacement meter shall be installed to provide for continuous
metering of the private water supply. If a replacement meter is not available,
the wastewater charges for the period for which no meter was in service shall
be based on the average use for a previous comparable period as determined by
the city.
      (3)   No person shall alter the water supply piping from a private well
to the meter after the installation of the meter has been approved by the
Superintendent without having a permit from the city.
      (4)   No person shall tamper with the meter. Any person violating these
provisions shall be subject to immediate termination in accordance with §
50.08(C).
      (5)   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any meter.
   (F)   Service failure to install equipment or grant access. In the event a
customer either fails or refuses to install or maintain any equipment required
by the city or fails or refuses to grant access to the city’s employed or
contracted personnel to install or maintain any such equipment, the city may,
at its discretion, take one or more of the following measures:
      (1)   Shut off water and/or sewer service to the building. Fourteen days
before disconnection, the Superintendent will send the property owner notice,
by certified mail, return receipt requested, that service will be discontinued
and the building will be red-tagged as unfit for human occupancy. Service will
be restored after the required equipment is installed or maintained, to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent, and the city’s costs of disconnection and
reconnection, including administrative fees and postage costs, are paid by the
customer. Under certain circumstances, such as no reasonable installation
access from the meter to the power line, and at the discretion of the
Superintendent, the city may waive the installation requirement; and
      (2)   Impose a fine pursuant to §
50.99 for each day of noncompliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 25.18) (Ord. 14-9-5, passed - -; Ord. 22-3-2, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15 ACCESS TO EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any valve, hydrant,
stopcock, manhole, flow measuring equipment or any other equipment necessary to
the operation of the water or wastewater facilities which is located in any
public street, alley or easement.
   (B)   No person shall in any manner obstruct access to any meter or any
flow-measuring equipment located in any building.
(Prior Code, § 25.19) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 DAMAGE TO EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, equipment
or property of the water or wastewater facilities.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall repair, remove or replace any equipment,
appurtenance or property of the water and wastewater facilities.
   (C)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and shall pay the cost of restoring
the equipment.
(Prior Code, § 25.20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 USE OF WATER FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, the owner of all houses, buildings or
properties situated within the city and outside of the radius referenced
herein, abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which a public water
main with available capacity is within 200 feet of the nearest property line of
the property, shall be required to extend the public water main to and across
the frontage of the property and make connection as herein provided within six
months said water main being available. If such water main extension benefits
other properties, the city may enact a recapture ordinance and make best
efforts to collect and return to the owner amounts received from benefited
properties.
      (2)   The only exception to this section is with respect to an owner of
an existing house, building or property that is serviced by a private well as
of the effective date of this provision, February 26, 2001. In this situation,
the owner may continue to use said private well until such time the existing
private well system fails or is in need of repair or replacement parts. At the
time the existing private well system fails, needs repair or replacement parts,
the private well shall immediately be abandoned and connection made to the city
public water main.
   (B)   Notice. At the time a public water main becomes available pursuant to
division (A) above, written notice shall be sent to the property owner by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and by posting a copy of said notice
on the premises, of the requirement to connect to the public water main.
   (C)   Failure to make connection. In the event connection to the public
water supply is not made as required in this section, upon 30 days’ written
notice to the owner and occupants, the city shall terminate occupancy and use
of the premises pending compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 25.21) (Ord. 01-2-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Whenever a public water main is not available under the provisions of
§
50.17, the building service pipe shall be connected to a private water supply
complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Whenever an industrial user requires water for industrial purposes and
the Superintendent determines that the city water facilities have inadequate
capacity to provide the pressure, volume or rate flow required by said
industry, the user may be required to install a private water supply complying
with the provisions of this section; provided, however, that the private water
supply is not used for any purpose except for industrial purposes and no cross-
connection is made to the public water supply.
   (C)   A private water supply shall not be used for domestic purposes for any
building except a single-family residence.
   (D)   Before commencement of construction of a private water supply, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Building Commissioner.
The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner. A permit and
inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed,
and shall be in such amount as the City Council may from time to time
determine. The owner shall also secure permits from all other agencies having
jurisdiction and file copies with the Building Commissioner.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private water supply in a
sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (F)   Whenever a private water supply is provided, the owner shall install a
water meter as provided in §
50.14(E).
(Prior Code, § 25.22)
§ 50.19 TAPPING WATER MAINS.
   (A)   No person shall make a connection to the water facilities of the city
without first making application to the Superintendent for the privilege of
making said connection and to have a written permit approved by the
Superintendent or Building Commissioner and to pay all applicable fees.
   (B)   Persons desiring such connection to the water facilities of the city
shall, in addition to making application, fully state all purposes for which
water is required and answer all questions put to them by the Superintendent
relating to the proposed water consumption. In the case of any fraudulent
representation on the part of the user, the payment will be forfeited and the
supply of water stopped.
   (C)   No permit will be issued until the permittee:
      (1)   Pays the tapping fee as prescribed in this section;
      (2)   Pays the cost of the meter and installation thereof (meter fee);
      (3)   Secures a street opening permit, if required in conformance with
the provisions of
Chapter 152;
      (4)   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation of said service;
      (5)   Agrees to give the Superintendent a minimum of 24 hours’ notice
prior to the start of the installation of the service and when the service
shall be ready for inspection, except that no inspections will be made at times
other than during regular city working hours;
      (6)   Agrees that the materials used and the method of installation shall
be in conformance with specifications established by the Superintendent;
      (7)   Agrees to pay all costs of inspection and testing if inspection in
excess of the inspection and testing normally provided by the city is deemed
necessary by the Superintendent;
      (8)   Agrees to conform to all rules governing plumbers and to the
regulations of the State Plumbing Code, being I.A.C. Title 77, Part 890; and
      (9)   Agrees to secure and protect the city from any liability or damage
whatsoever for injury (including death) to any person or property and files
with the Clerk liability insurance certificates. The amount of the insurance
shall be established by the City Council.
   (D)   Fees. Water tapping fees will be charged for connecting or tapping
onto the water facilities. Such fees, which must be paid at the time of
application for the service, are found in §
150.17.
(Prior Code, § 25.23) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   Ownership and maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   Homeowner responsibility. The homeowner owns and is responsible for
the water service pipe from the building, up to but not including the curb stop
cock.
      (2)   City responsibility. The city owns and is responsible for the water
service pipe from the curb stop cock, up to and including the corporation stop
at the water main. The city shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair
of the curb stop cock except when the damage is caused by the property owner or
by anyone working on behalf of the property owner or water service user. In
such cases, the property owner or water user will be responsible for all repair
costs.
      (3)   Superintendent authority. If the user fails to properly maintain
the water service pipe, the Superintendent shall have the authority to enter
onto the property, provide maintenance as required and bill for the cost of
said maintenance on the next water bill or shut the water off until proper
maintenance is completed.
   (B)   Specifications. The pipe, valves and fittings used for the service
pipe shall be as specified by the Superintendent. The Superintendent may make
the service pipe tap to the water main or allow the user’s contractor to make
the connection under the supervision of the Superintendent.
   (C)   Cost and installation. The permittee shall pay all costs of installing
the service, up to and including the corporation stop, including such material
and services provided by the city. The permittee shall coordinate with the city
prior to tapping the water main to coordinate inspections. The permittee shall
maintain the water service pipe, up to but not including the curb stop cock.
   (D)   Cost and decommission. The permittee shall pay all costs of
decommissioning the service, up to and including the corporation stop,
including such material and services provided by the city. The permittee shall
coordinate with the city prior to capping the water main and sewer main to
coordinate inspections.
(Prior Code, § 25.24) (Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.21 BUILDING SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   Definition. The building service pipe extends from the curb stop cock
to the building and shall be installed by the user at his, her or their
expense.
   (B)   Specifications. The building service pipe shall be the same size and
material as the water service pipe and shall be inspected by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   Maintenance responsibility.
      (1)   User responsibility. Persons taking water must do so at their own
expense and must keep the building service pipe in good repair, protect it from
frost or damage in any other manner and prevent all unnecessary waste of water.
It shall be the duty of the user to maintain the building service pipe from the
curb stop cock to the house.
      (2)   City responsibility. The city owns and is responsible for the water
service pipe from the curb stop cock, up to and including the corporation stop
at the water main. The city shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair
of the curb stop cock except when the damage is caused by the property owner or
by anyone working on behalf of the property owner. In such cases, the property
owner will be responsible for all repair costs.
      (3)   Superintendent authority. If the user fails to properly maintain
the building service pipe, the Superintendent shall have the authority to enter
onto the property, provide maintenance as required and bill for the cost of
said maintenance on the next water bill or shut the water off until proper
maintenance is completed.
(Prior Code, § 25.25) (Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.22 SEPARATE SERVICES REQUIRED.
   A separate water service pipe is required for every building or residence.
Where a building contains more than one commercial or industrial user, or where
the building contains a combination of commercial or industrial and residential
uses, there shall be separate services for each use if required by the
Superintendent. A single meter is allowed in buildings with more than one
residential user.
(Prior Code, § 25.26)
§ 50.23 DISCONTINUING WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person moving from or within the city shall give written notice to
the city water billing clerk prior to the expiration of the time for which
payment has been made or becomes due and remains unpaid; otherwise he or she
shall be liable for the charge for the ensuing billing period.
   (B)   Persons wishing to discontinue the use of water in homes used
seasonally shall give written notice thereof to the Superintendent. Shut-off
services shall be performed by the city only during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 25.27)
§ 50.24 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Use. All hydrants constructed in the city for the purpose of
extinguishing fires are hereby declared to be public hydrants. No persons other
than members of the City Fire Rescue District and those authorized by the
Superintendent shall open any such hydrant or attempt to draw water from same
or in any manner interfere with or injure any of such hydrants.
   (B)   Obstruction of hydrants. No person shall obstruct the use of any fire
hydrant or place any material in front thereof. Any material forming such
obstruction may be removed by the city or by the City Fire Protection District.
The cost of removal shall be borne by the owner thereof.
   (C)   Wrenches. No person shall use any water hydrant wrenches without the
permission of the Superintendent.
   (D)   Temporary use. Any person wishing to make a connection to a hydrant as
a temporary source of water for construction or other purposes approved by the
Superintendent shall make application to the Superintendent. The user shall
make a deposit equal to the replacement cost of the meter which shall be
returned less $10 per week or portion thereof for meter rental and any cost of
maintenance and repair to the meter. Meters will be supplied as available. No
temporary meters shall be installed between November 15 and April 1 or at any
other time where there is danger of freezing. Temporary meters shall be
installed on a weekly basis, and payment for the use shall be weekly.
   (E)   Charges. The charges for water that is taken directly from a fire
hydrant shall be as follows.
 
Charges                                Rate
First 3,000 gallons of water           Current outside city limits rate x 4.5
Plus a debt service charge of          Current outside city limits rate for
                                       monthly debt service charge
Per 1,000 gallons after first 3,000    Current outside city limits rate x 1
gallons
Plus a debt service charge of          Current outside city limits rate for
                                       monthly debt service charge
Plus an hourly salary of (1 hour       Utilities Superintendent Step 6 current
minimum) during regular business hours rate
Plus an hourly salary of (1 hour       Utilities Superintendent Step 6 current
minimum) after regular business hours  rate x 2
 
(Prior Code, § 25.28) (Ord. 04-2-1, passed - -; Ord. 05-3-1, passed - -; Ord.
07-3-6, passed - -; Ord. 08-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 WATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Metered water supplies inside the city. The rates or charges for the
use of and for the service supplied by the water facilities of the city inside
the corporate limits, for meter readings taken after March 1, 2026, are based
on the amount of water consumed as follows.
 
Billing rates                           Effective for meter readings taken
                                        after March 1, 2026
For each user of the water service of
the combined waterworks and sewerage
system within the corporate limits, the $5.55
usage charge per 1,000 gallons of water
used per quarter shall be:
Debt service charge to pay part of the
cost of bonds issued for system
improvements per quarter for each       $13.30
single meter or multiple unit per
quarter shall be:
 
   (B)   Metered water supplies outside the city. The rates or charges for the
use of and for the service supplied by the water facilities of the city outside
the corporate limits, for meter readings taken after March 1, 2026, are based
on the amount of water consumed as follows.
 
Billing rates                          Effective for meter readings taken after
                                       March 1, 2026
For each user of the water service of
the combined waterworks and sewerage
system outside the corporate limits,   $7.55
the usage charge per 1,000 gallons of
water used per quarter shall be:
Debt service charge to pay part of the
cost of bonds issued for system
improvements per quarter for each      $48.55
single meter or multiple unit per
quarter shall be:
 
   (C)   Unmetered water supply for sprinkler, fire protection service.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever sprinkler or fire protection services are desired,
application must be made for the privilege of installing such service. Complete
plans for installation shall be attached to such petition.
         (b)   When said application is approved, a contract shall be entered
into with the city for connection from city mains to the property, which
connection will be made by and the cost of same to be paid by the user.
      (2)   City water will not be admitted into any sprinkler or fire
protection service unless all pipes in connection with such system are left
exposed for inspection and pressure testing.
      (3)   A valve shall be installed with a rising stem, on each side of the
check valve, and each shall have the valve operating handle accessible for
operation outside of the building.
      (4)   No additional sprinkler heads shall be installed or new connections
of any kind whatsoever shall be made to a sprinkler or fire protection system
unless a permit for such connection has been granted by the city.
      (5)   (a)   Where a reservoir is maintained on any premises in connection
with sprinkler or fire protection system, or for any other special service, the
water service shall be connected with such reservoir in such a manner as to
exclude all danger of backsiphonage.
         (b)   Such connections shall be made only upon approval of the
Superintendent.
      (6)   No connection of any kind whatsoever except for fire protection
shall be taken from any fire or sprinkler service system.
      (7)   All private fire prevention water line users in the city shall pay
an annual fee, on May 1 of each year, for the management, maintenance and
operation thereof based on the following formula.
 
Diameter of water supply line x x 0.33 = annual maintenance fee
 
(Prior Code, § 25.29) (Ord. 01-8-5, passed - -; Ord. 04-2-1, passed - -; Ord.
05-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 07-3-6, passed - -; Ord. 08-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 15-
6-1, passed - -; Ord. 16-5-2, passed - -; Ord. 18-6-2, passed - -; Ord. 26-4-2,
passed 4-13-2026)
§ 50.26 EXTENSION OF PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS OR WATER MAINS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sanitary sewer or water main of the city for
the purpose of extending same without first making application to the
Superintendent for making said extension and to have the proposed extension
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Persons desiring such extension of the water and sewer system shall
file with the Superintendent four copies of the following documents:
      (1)   Detailed plans and specifications prepared by a registered
professional engineer registered in the state;
      (2)   IEPA permit application with such supporting documents as are
required by the IEPA, completely filled out and ready for city signature; and
      (3)   Detailed estimate of cost of the extension.
   (C)   After approval of the plans and specifications by the City Engineer
and receipt of an IEPA permit, the person or persons shall submit to the
Superintendent the following documents prior to starting the extension:
      (1)   (a)   Agreement and bond executed by the permittee wherein he or
she agrees to make and install the improvements in accordance with the plans
and specifications specifying a completion date not more than six months after
the date of the agreement unless the City Council determines, on the basis of
the recommendation of the City Engineer, that a longer time is necessary;
         (b)   The guarantee for completion of the improvements by the
permittee shall be in the principal amount of 150% of the estimated cost as
approved by the City Engineer and secured by either:
            1.   A certificate of deposit with or an escrow account at a
federally insured bank or savings and loan association subject to draw by the
city to complete the improvements if it is not completed within the prescribed
time limit; or
            2.   A clean, non-declining, irrevocable letter of credit issued by
a federally insured bank or savings and loan association. The letter shall be
approved by the city and provide that funds may be drawn only by the city.
         (c)   The bond shall remain in effect for a period of one year after
acceptance of the work by the City Engineer as a guarantee of good faith of the
permittee to correct defects. At the discretion of the City Council, the bond
may be reduced during the maintenance period.
      (2)   Copies of all permits, insurance and bonds required for street
openings or stream crossings and any other permits required by an agency having
jurisdiction; and
      (3)   Certificates of insurance protecting the city from any liability or
damage whatsoever from injury, including death, to any person or property. The
amount of the insurance shall be as established by the City Council.
   (D)   Person or persons extending water or sewer shall agree as follows:
      (1)   To pay all costs of plan review by the City Engineer. Payment shall
be made to the city prior to the city signing the IEPA permit applications;
      (2)   To pay all costs of inspection, including resident supervision if
deemed necessary by the City Engineer. The estimated cost of inspection,
approved by the City Engineer, shall be deposited with the Treasurer prior to
the start of work and additional funds added during the work if required. The
permittee, however, shall pay only the actual costs of such services based on
standard engineering fees. At the completion of the work any unused portion of
the amount deposited shall be returned. No interest shall be paid on deposited
funds;
      (3)   Materials and construction methods shall be in conformance with
specifications established by the City Engineer; and
      (4)   The engineer designing the extension shall file as-built drawings
at the completion of the work with the city.
   (E)   The performance bond will not be released until the following
documents are filed with the Clerk and approved by the City Council:
      (1)   As-built drawings: one reproducible set and two sets of prints;
      (2)   Release of all permits;
      (3)   Copies of all tests required by the Superintendent or the City
Engineer; and
      (4)   The guarantee period has expired.
   (F)   No extension will be allowed to the sanitary sewer system if the City
Council determines that the wastewater facilities have inadequate available
capacity.
(Prior Code, § 25.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within city
limits, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any water course within the city,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any untreated sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes or polluted waters.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault
or cesspool intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 25.31) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 USE OF SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sewer, shall be required to make connection to the public
sewer within 200 days after official notice that the public sewer is available.
The owner shall pay all costs of connection, including recapture fees, if
applicable.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties situated within the
city and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which a public sewer
is within 300 feet of the nearest property line of the property shall be
required to extend the public sewer to and across the frontage of the property
and made connection as herein provided. If such public sewer benefits other
properties, the city shall enact a recapture ordinance and make best efforts to
collect and return to the owner amounts received from benefited properties. All
public sewer extensions shall be made in accordance with §
50.26.
(Prior Code, § 25.32)
§ 50.29 PRIVATE WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person shall construct a wastewater treatment facility within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of
treating wastewater and discharging same to a water course.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall construct a wastewater treatment facility within
the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of treating industrial wastes
and discharging same to a water course unless the City Council determines that
the wastewater treatment facilities have inadequate capacity, and issues a
permit for the construction and operation of a wastewater treatment facility.
No city permit shall become effective until:
         (a)   An IEPA permit to construct and operate the facility has been
received;
         (b)   A NPDES permit has been received;
         (c)   The City Engineer has approved the plans and specifications in
writing; and
         (d)   The guarantee period has expired.
      (2)   Persons operating a wastewater treatment facility shall file copies
of all operating reports sent to the USEPA and IEPA with the Superintendent and
such other reports as the Superintendent deems necessary.
   (C)   No person shall construct a private wastewater treatment facility with
subsurface disposal of the effluent if the population to be served exceeds 15
persons or the system is intended to serve more than one building.
   (D)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
50.28, a private wastewater treatment facility employing subsurface absorption
facilities may be installed, if the wastewater to be treated is domestic.
   (E)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater treatment
facility employing subsurface absorption facilities, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the Building Commissioner. The application
for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed, and shall be in
such amount as the City Council may from time to time determine. The permit
shall not be issued until applicable county permits are on file.
   (F)   A permit for a private wastewater treatment facility employing
subsurface absorption facilities shall not become effective until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner. He
or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and,
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Building
Commissioner when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Building Commissioner, except that no
inspections will be made at any time other than regular city working hours.
   (G)   Regulations for grinder pump systems are as follows.
      (1)   Policy. The city has experienced situations where development is
possible but gravity sewers and conventional sanitary sewer systems are not
practical. Accordingly, it is the policy of the city to approve grinder pump
systems on a discretionary case-by-case basis. In order to implement a grinder
pump system, a developer or individual homeowner must prove to the city that a
grinder pump system is the only viable option other than a conventional
sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Installation. A permit for a private wastewater treatment facility
employing a grinder pump system shall not be issued until the design and
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner. The
Building Commissioner or his or her designee shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Building Commissioner when the grinder pump system is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      (3)   Operation and maintenance.
         (a)   In addition, the Superintendent shall be entitled to inspect the
grinder pump system if he or she has any reason to believe that the grinder
pump system is not operating properly or pursuant to a routine inspection
protocol developed by the Superintendent. Should the grinder pump system fall
into disrepair or otherwise need maintenance as determined by the city, and the
owner refuses to repair, replace or otherwise fix the grinder pump system to
the specifications of the city, the city may do so at its own expense and
obtain reimbursement from the individual owner.
         (b)   In that regard, and as a condition of obtaining a city permit
for a grinder pump system, the individual owner shall enter into a contractual
agreement indemnifying the city for any costs the city may incur with regard to
maintaining the grinder pump system, and further allow the city reasonable
access to the grinder pump system for inspection purposes.
   (H)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
treatment facility employing subsurface absorption facilities shall comply with
the most recent regulations and provisions of the County Health Department. No
permit shall be issued for any private wastewater treatment facility employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
22,800 square feet. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or water course.
   (I)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to the property
served by a private wastewater treatment facility, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private facilities shall be abandoned in accordance with
the city standards.
   (J)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater treatment
facility in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 25.33) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 CONNECTIONS TO THE WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application. No person shall construct a new wastewater source and
connect same to the wastewater facilities of the city without first making
application to the Superintendent for the privilege of making said connection
and to have a written permit approved by the Superintendent and to pay all
fees.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Persons desiring to construct a new waste source and connect same
to the wastewater facilities of the city shall, in addition to making
application, state the quantity, quality and rate of discharge of the
wastewater to be discharged into the sewer. In the case of any fraudulent
representation on the part of the user, the payment will be forfeited and the
use of the sewer stopped.
      (2)   No permit will be issued until the permittee:
         (a)   Pays the connection fee as prescribed in this section;
         (b)   Secures a street opening permit if required in conformance with
the provisions of
Chapter 152;
         (c)   Agrees to pay all costs of the installation, including the
connection to the public sewer, if required;
         (d)   Agrees to give the Superintendent 24 hours’ notice prior to the
start of any underground piping and when the underground piping will be ready
for inspection, except that no inspections will be made at times other than
during regular city working hours;
         (e)   Agrees that the materials used and the method of installation
shall be in conformance with specifications established by the City Engineer;
         (f)   Agrees to pay all inspection costs if such inspection is deemed
necessary by the Superintendent;
         (g)   Agrees to conform to all rules governing plumbers and to the
regulations of the State Plumbing Code, being I.A.C. Title 77, Part 890;
         (h)   Agrees to secure and protect the city from any liability or
damage whatsoever for injury, including death, to any person or property and
files with the Superintendent liability insurance certificates;
         (i)   Secures an IEPA permit if the wastewater:
            1.   Is domestic and the volume to be discharged is more than 1,500
gallons per day (gpd); or
            2.   Is industrial.
         (j)   Secures a building permit if new waste source is new equipment
to be installed within an existing building; and
         (k)   Agrees to conform to all applicable sections of this code.
   (C)   Connection, user fees.
      (1)   The fees for constructing a new wastewater source and connecting
same to the wastewater facilities of the city are found in §
150.17. For uses involving extra strength wastewater:
         (a)   For wastewater the strength of which exceeds normal domestic
wastewater in any constituent, if allowed by the City Council, there shall be
charged a surcharge computed at the time that connection is requested;
         (b)   Where the volume and strength of the wastewater to be discharged
to the public sanitary sewers is not known at the time of the connection, the
fee shall be estimated and adjusted to reflect actual conditions during the
billing period just prior to a full year of operation;
         (c)   The volume and strength of the wastewater for fee purposes shall
be the maximum daily discharge of constituents; and
         (d)   Where a connection is made based on the applicant’s statement
that the strength of the wastewater does not exceed normal domestic wastewater
in any constituent, and, at the end of the billing period just prior to a full
year of operation, it is determined that the wastewater does exceed domestic
wastewater in strength, the City Council may accept or reject the wastes.
      (2)   The tapping fee for any use not located within the corporate limits
of the city shall be three times the applicable tapping fee listed in §
150.17.
   (D)   Prohibited connections. No connection will be allowed to the
wastewater facilities if the City Council determines:
      (1)   The wastewater facilities have inadequate treatment or delivery
capacity;
      (2)   The wastewater contains incompatible wastes in excess of that
allowed by this code;
      (3)   The wastewater contains inadmissible substances; and/or
      (4)   The strength, volume or rate of discharge of a compatible waste
from a single source or class of users alters substantially the operation of
the wastewater facilities.
(Prior Code, § 25.34) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   Separate sewers required. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for each dwelling unit of a building (i.e., single-family
dwelling, townhouse, duplex, apartment), except where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building.
   (B)   Old sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of a new building sewer.
   (C)   Location. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall
be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall. No building
sewers shall be installed in any place where they may be subject to freezing
temperatures unless adequate provisions are made to protect them from frost.
Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curbed pipe and fittings,
or a manhole, as determined by the Superintendent.
   (D)   Lift station. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   (E)   Permit required. No addition to or alteration of any building sewer
shall be made or caused to be made by any person without a permit from the
Superintendent and then only through a state licensed plumber. No permit shall
authorize anything not explicitly stated in the application.
   (F)   Maintenance of building sewer. Persons connected to the sanitary sewer
system through a building sewer shall maintain said building sewer in good
repair, protect it from damage in any manner and prevent the entrance of
uncontaminated waters. If the user fails to properly maintain the building
sewer, the Superintendent shall have the authority to enter onto the property
to maintain the sewer and add the cost of said maintenance on the next sewer
use bill or terminate the service until proper maintenance is completed.
   (G)   Inspection manhole.
      (1)   All industrial users and such other users, except domestic users,
as may be determined by the Superintendent, shall install an inspection manhole
on the building sewer.
      (2)   Said manhole shall be located conveniently in the public right-of-
way or easement. The manhole shall be a minimum of 48 inches in diameter and
shall be equipped with such measuring and sampling equipment as may be required
by the Superintendent.
   (H)   Clean-out. The clean-out pipe for a residential property shall be ten
feet from the building.
(Prior Code, § 25.35)
§ 50.32 WASTES ADMISSIBLE TO THE WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The following wastes are admissible to the wastewater facilities of
the city:
      (1)   Any compatible pollutant, except that the strength, volume and rate
of flow of the waste may be regulated;
      (2)   Any incompatible pollutant which is identified in the NPDES permit
received by the city except that the total from all sources may not exceed the
amount allowed under the NPDES permit;
      (3)   Any incompatible pollutant for which an effluent standard has been
established by the IEPA or promulgated by authority of the Act, provided that:
         (a)   The aggregate total from all sources shall not exceed the total
allowable to the wastewater treatment facilities based on the average dry
weather flow. It is assumed that there will be no removal of the incompatible
waste in the treatment facilities;
         (b)   The concentration of the incompatible waste discharged from any
source shall not exceed two times the concentration allowed in the wastewater
treatment facility effluent;
         (c)   The concentration of the incompatible waste in the wastewater
treatment facility shall not exceed the maximum allowed by the IEPA; and
         (d)   The concentration of the incompatible waste will not adversely
affect the stream standards established for the Kishwaukee River.
      (4)   Cooling water or other uncontaminated industrial process water.
   (B)   The city may from time to time establish maximum concentrations of
various pollutants in the wastewater treatment facility effluent.
(Prior Code, § 25.36)
§ 50.33 WASTES INADMISSIBLE TO THE WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   The following are prohibited discharge standards.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the city’s wastewater facilities any pollutant or wastewater
which causes pass-through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of the city’s wastewater facilities whether or not the user is
subject to any pretreatment agreement or regulation.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the city’s wastewater facilities the following pollutants,
items, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the city’s
wastewater facilities, including, but not limited to, waste streams with a
closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the city’s wastewater facilities or
equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances, in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the city’s wastewater facilities, resulting in
interference;
      (4)   Rags, towels, “flushable” and non-flushable cleansing cloths or
wipes, diapers and feminine hygiene products, disposable or reusable,
including, but not limited to, sanitary napkins, tampons, pantyliners,
menstrual pads and sponges and other items deemed unacceptable by the city
wastewater facility operators;
      (5)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the city’s wastewater facilities;
      (6)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 104°F (40°C), or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case, wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (8)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the city’s wastewater facilities in a quantity that may cause
acute worker health and safety problems;
      (9)   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      (10)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance or repair;
      (11)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES permit;
      (12)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized in writing by the City Administrator or his or her designee;
      (14)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (15)   Medical wastes;
      (16)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail toxicity or other biological testing;
      (17)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which might
cause excessive foaming in the city’s wastewater facilities;
      (18)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations causing blockages deemed unreasonable by the operator of the
city’s wastewater facilities; or
      (19)   Wastewater causing at least two readings on the city wastewater
facility explosion hazard meter.
   (C)   City’s right to screen service lines. In the event of repeated
violations of these regulations, the city reserves the right to install, and
maintain in the future, a screen in the subject sanitary service line to stop
further violations. The violator shall be liable to the city for all associated
costs incurred by the city.
(Prior Code, § 25.37) (Ord. 22-3-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Installation. In order to help prevent sewer blockages and image to
the wastewater treatment plant caused by fats, oils and grease, a grease
interceptor (trap) shall be installed at any establishment which disposes of
fats, oil or grease (FOG). Grease traps shall be installed at any new, altered
or existing establishment that disposes of FOG. Each grease trap shall be
properly maintained at no cost to the city.
   (B)   Size and maintenance. A grease trap installed on the same floor as the
fixture shall have a minimum one-half the liquid holding capacity of the
fixture. A grease trap located on a floor below the fixture shall have at least
60% of the liquid holding capacity of the fixture. Where two or more sinks or
receptacles are connected to an interceptor, the liquid holding capacity shall
be based on the combined volume of the fixtures served. To determine the liquid
holding capacity in gallons of a plumbing fixture, multiply the length by the
width by the height in inches and divide by 231. Each grease trap shall be
located so that it may be readily cleaned and inspected. Should the trap be
located outside of the establishment, proper maintenance and cleaning will be
necessary. Water-cooled traps are not permitted.
   (C)   Inspection. The city shall inspect facilities with a grease trap a
minimum of once per year. Additional inspections may take place if it is deemed
necessary by the city, such as in the case of sewer blockages, to ascertain
whether the purpose of this section is being met and all requirements are
complied with. Occupants of the premises containing a grease trap shall allow
the city, or its representative, ready access upon presentation of credentials
at reasonable times to all parts of said premises for the purpose of
inspection, sampling, examination and photocopying of records to be kept as
required herein. During the inspections, the following shall be verified:
      (1)   The maintenance and frequency of fats, oils and grease removal is
done in an appropriate and timely manner. The trap must be cleaned and grease
removed on a schedule (not more than 90 days) that will prevent grease from
passing through the trap and into the public sewer system;
      (2)   The trap is in sound operating condition or in need of replacement;
      (3)   No grease additives are being used, in compliance with §
50.33; and
      (4)   Each facility shall maintain a record of grease trap cleaning and
maintenance. This shall include the date of cleaning, as well as the signature
of a supervisor of the facility. In the case grease trap cleaning is done by an
outside agency, receipts of such service from that agency shall be kept on
file.
   (D)   Permits. Each facility that maintains a grease trap shall have a city
permit, which shall be renewed annually at a fee of $75. Permits shall be
issued and fees collected by the City Water and Wastewater Division. Within 30
days after the effective date of this section (December 26, 2005), those
establishments with a grease trap must obtain a city permit. All nonprofit
establishments, private and public schools, churches, public and governmental
facilities, fraternal organizations and bona fide tax exempt entities pursuant
to I.R.C. § 501(C)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), shall have their fee
waived. However, those establishments and organizations are required to possess
a permit and are subject to inspections.
(Prior Code, § 25.38) (Ord. 05-11-4, passed - -)
§ 50.35 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any user discharging or proposing to discharge any wastewater into the
wastewater facilities of the city which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
50.33, and/or which are in violation of the standards established by the IEPA
or USEPA, shall provide pretreatment of the wastewater to an acceptable
condition for discharge to the wastewater facilities. All required permits
shall be filed with the Superintendent prior to the start of constructing
pretreatment facilities.
   (B)   Any user discharging or proposing to discharge a compatible waste, the
strength of which exceeds normal domestic waste in any constituent, shall
install a pretreatment facility if required by the Superintendent. If
pretreatment is required, it shall apply uniformly to all users within the
industry number.
   (C)   Any user proposing to construct a pretreatment facility shall have the
plans and specifications approved in writing by the City Engineer and an IEPA
permit prior to receiving a permit by the city.
   (D)   Any user proposing to operate a pretreatment facility shall comply
with all requirements of the IEPA and shall submit such operating data as may
be required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 25.39)
§ 50.36 USER CHARGE.
   (A)   Policy. It is hereby declared that the policy of the city is as
follows.
      (1)   The city shall adhere to the requirements of Title 40, Protection
of the Environment, Chapter 1, Environmental Protection Agency, Subchapter B,
Grants, Part 35, State and Local Assistance, Final Grant Regulations, effective
February 11, 1974, and all subsequent enactments and regulations issued
pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.
      (2)   No funds for the operation and maintenance of the wastewater
facilities shall be derived from the use of an ad valorem tax.
      (3)   No charge will be made for any inadmissible waste.
      (4)   Where the removal of any constituent is incidental to the treatment
process, no charge will be made for that constituent.
      (5)   All wastes, the strength of which does not exceed normal domestic
waste in any constituent, shall, for billing purposes, be considered to be
normal domestic wastes. User charges for normal domestic wastes shall be based
on flow alone.
      (6)   Charges for extra strength wastes shall be expressed in dollars per
pound of constituent in excess of normal domestic wastewater.
   (B)   Cost of operation and maintenance. The cost of operation and
maintenance shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate projected annual revenue required to operate and maintain
the wastewater facilities for the next fiscal year;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, BOD and SS; and
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume to be billed. Said volume shall be a
total of:
         (a)   Water meter readings;
         (b)   Estimated use for users not using the city water facilities; and
         (c)   Flow meter readings.
   (C)   Summary of users. Annually concurrently with the determination of the
cost of operation and maintenance the city shall make a summary of all users.
Said summary shall include a summary of all domestic users with a breakdown as
to whether city or private water supply is used, a summary of commercial users
listing all such users discharging industrial wastes and/or subject to a
surcharge and a summary of all industry listing all such users discharging
industrial wastes and/or subject to a surcharge. Where a user discharges
industrial wastes and/or is subject to a surcharge, an estimate of the volume
and strength of said wastewater shall be made.
   (D)   Surcharge.
      (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose wastes exceed the
concentration for BOD or SS in normal domestic wastewater. The surcharge shall
be expressed as dollars per pound of each constituent (BOD or SS).
      (2)   Per billing cycle the number of pounds of each constituent from
each user subject to a surcharge shall be computed as follows:
 
BOD (pounds) (Average analysis per billing cycle in mg/l - 200) x total flow
             (MG) x 8.34
SS (pounds)  (Average analysis per billing cycle in mg/l - 240) x total flow
             (MG) x 8.34
 
      (3)   Total flow for the billing cycle shall be either water meter or
flow meter readings and shall be expressed in million gallons (MG).
      (4)   The surcharge shall be the pounds of each constituent per billing
period times the unit cost for each constituent.
      (5)   Beginning November 13, 2024, excess BOD will be billed at $1.25 per
pound in excess of 200 mg/l, and excess SS will be billed at $1.25 per pound in
excess of 240 mg/l.
      (6)   Annually, the city shall list all users expected to be billed a
surcharge for the coming year and the total amount expected to be received from
surcharges.
   (E)   User charge.
      (1)   Annually and such other times as the City Council shall deem
necessary, the user charge shall be determined by dividing the estimated amount
of revenue required for the operation and maintenance for the next fiscal year
less the estimated amount of revenue to be received from surcharges by the
estimated volume of wastewater to be billed to all users for the next fiscal
year expressed on 1,000 gallon units.
      (2)   The resultant charge shall be expressed in dollars per 1,000
gallons.
(Prior Code, § 25.40) (Ord. 24-11-1, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 50.37 DEBT SERVICE AND OTHER COSTS.
   Annually and at such other times as the City Council deems necessary, the
rates for debt service and other cost shall be computed as follows.
   (A)   The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt
service by the estimated amount of wastewater to be billed for the next fiscal
year, expressed in 1,000 gallon units. The resultant charge shall be expressed
in dollars per 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   When deemed necessary, the City Council may declare a rate to provide
funds for such other costs as may be applicable to the wastewater facilities.
Such a rate shall be based on volume of wastewater billed only and shall be
applicable to all users.
(Prior Code, § 25.41)
§ 50.38 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established rates or charges for
the use of, and for the service supplied by the wastewater facilities of, the
city for meter readings taken after March 1, 2026, based on the amount of
wastewater discharged into the wastewater facilities, plus a surcharge for the
wastewater the strength of which exceeds normal domestic wastewater.
   (B)   The rate and debt service charges shall be recomputed annually as part
of the city’s budget preparation process and shall provide adequate funds for
the operation and maintenance of the facilities and repayment of bonded debt.
Billing rates for metered and non-
metered residential/nonresidential      Effective for meter readings taken
users outside of the city, and are      after March 1, 2026
subject to written agreement with the
city**
Billing rates for nonresidential users  Effective for meter readings taken
within the city with metered city water after March 1, 2026
Billing rates for metered and non-
metered residential/nonresidential      Effective for meter readings taken
users outside of the city, and are      after March 1, 2026
subject to written agreement with the
city**
Billing rates for nonresidential users  Effective for meter readings taken
within the city with metered city water after March 1, 2026
Debt service charge flat fee <50.000    $33.80
gallons/quarter
Debt service charge flat fee >50,000    $58.80
gallons/quarter
Sewer rate/1,000 gallons of metered     $6.65
water
WWTP debt service/1,000 gallons of      $5
metered water
Billing rates for residential users     Effective for meter readings taken
within the city with metered city water after March 1, 2026
Debt service charge flat fee            $8.80
Sewer rate/1,000 gallons of metered     $6.65
water
WWTP debt service/1,000 gallons of      $5
metered water
Billing rates for unmetered
residential/nonresidential users within Effective March 1, 2026
the city*
Basic user charge                       $160
Debt service/quarter – nonresidential $58.80
Debt service/quarter – residential    $8.80
Notes to Table:
* In the event usage of the wastewater facilities is determined to exceed
20,000 gallons per quarter, the city may require the installation of metering
devices on the water supply or sewer to measure the amount of service
provided.
** For users outside the corporate limits of the city, the rate, if service is
permitted under this category, shall be based on the amount of water consumed
as shown by water meters.
 
(Prior Code, § 25.42) (Ord. 01-8-5, passed - -; Ord. 04-2-1, passed - -; Ord.
05-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 07-3-6, passed - -; Ord. 08-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 11-
8-2, passed - -; Ord. 14-3-3, passed - -; Ord. 15-6-1, passed - -; Ord. 16-5-2,
passed - -; Ord. 18-6-2, passed - -; Ord. 26-4-2, passed 4-13-2026)
§ 50.39 WATER, SANITARY SEWER AND STORM SEWER USES OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   No permit shall be issued for the tapping into or use of any water main or
sanitary sewer or storm sewer facility under the jurisdiction of the city for
any location outside of the corporate limits of the city until the person or
user executes a perpetual, binding agreement to comply with and be governed by
all applicable sections of this code.
(Prior Code, § 25.43)
§ 50.40 WATER, SANITARY SEWER AND STORM SEWER USES FOR AUTOMOBILE SERVICE,
REPAIR AND FUEL DISPENSING PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Discharge monitoring. Inspection manholes in sanitary sewers as
required by §
50.31(G) shall be capable of being equipped with continuous 24-hour composite
sampling equipment meeting the requirements of §
50.14(C). When property use involves automotive repair or handling, sale and
dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, all sanitary sewers
serving non-domestic uses shall include such monitoring throughout the year in
a manner secured and coordinated by the Superintendent. Additionally, any
property involved in the repair or servicing of automobiles, trucks or engine-
powered equipment shall install a triple basin oil separator in the sanitary
line servicing the repair area of the building. This system shall be cleaned,
serviced and inspected at least twice per year.
   (B)   Stormwater handling and detention. Stormwater handling shall be in
accordance with this code and when the property use is associated with
automotive repair or handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products and/or
automotive fluids, there shall be a separate drainage system constructed to
collect all fluids from the areas associated with pump islands and under pump
canopies. This separate drainage system shall collect these fluids and hold
them in a separate sealed tank for testing and removal by approved special
waste handling methods. Stormwater conductors or downspouts that drain the
canopy roof shall be discharged via hard piping directly to the on-site storm
sewer system. Downspouts shall not be allowed to discharge across the surface
of the fueling area and/or parking lot. All fuel dispensing equipment, storage
tanks, secondary containment structures, monitoring wells, leak detection
equipment, piping and venting shall be installed in accordance with the
standards listed below:
      (1)   Guidance Manual for LUST Cleanups in Illinois, September 1989; and
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Manual, September 1991; both published by the
IEPA, 2200 Churchill Road, P.O. Box 19276, Springfield, IL 62794-9276;
      (2)   Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid
Storage Systems, PEI/RP100, 1994; published by Petroleum Equipment Institute,
P.O. Box 2380, Tulsa, OK 74101;
      (3)   Flammable and Combustible Liquid Code, NFPA/30, 1993; Automotive
and Marine Services Station Code, NFPA/30A, 1993; National Electric Code, NFPA/
70, 1993; and Underground Leakage of Flammable and Combustible Liquids, NFPA/
329, 1992; all published by National Fire Protection Association, 1
Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9904;
      (4)   Underground Storage Tanks; Technical Requirements and State Program
Approval; Final Rules, 40 C.F.R. parts 280 and 281, Part II, Federal Register,
Friday September 23, 1988; and Musts for UST’s: A Summary of the New
Regulations for Underground Storage Tank Systems, and Hazardous Waste
Management Standards, Federal Register, July 14, 1986, both published by USEPA,
Office of Underground Storage Tanks, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20460;
and
      (5)   Rules of the State Fire Marshal, Part 170 and 180, Title 41,
Chapter 1, State of Illinois, Office of the Fire Marshal, 1035 Stevenson
Parkway, Springfield, IL 62703.
   (C)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   These requirements shall be met by any property use associated with
automotive repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products
and/or automotive fluids, where any water main, wastewater or stormwater
facility is under the jurisdiction of the city, regardless of whether or not
such property lies within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   The requirements of this division (C) shall not be applied to
existing property uses except that whenever a permit shall be required for new
construction or reconstruction of a property use associated with automotive
repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products and/or
automotive fluids involving placement, replacement, reconfiguration, removal or
modification of any fueling area, compliance with the provisions of this
section shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 25.44)
§ 50.41 LIMITATIONS ON DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   In case of making repairs or alterations or constructing new
facilities or for any other reason, the Mayor and City Council reserves the
right to limit the discharge of wastewater to the wastewater facilities for as
long as may be necessary by giving such reasonable notice thereof as shall be
practical to the user.
   (B)   No claim shall be made against the city by reason of the above or by
reason of the breakage or failure of any portion of the wastewater facilities.
(Prior Code, § 25.45)
§ 50.42 SURCHARGE FOR ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS OR UNINSPECTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Sewer surcharge. The Building Commissioner is authorized and directed
to inspect any and all facilities, including businesses, residences and any
other permanent structures with city sewer service for purposes of determining
compliance with federal grant application standards, which are specifically
incorporated herein, or illegal connections whereby excessive storm runoff
water is diverted into the sanitary sewer. If the Building Commissioner is
unable to acquire access to any business, residence or other structure within
the city, or finds a violation of the federal grant application standards or an
illegal connection, the Building Commissioner shall notify the utility billing
clerk who shall levy a surcharge of $80 per quarter on any water or sewer bills
for said premises. Said surcharge shall be a provisional charge for 90 days
after it is first billed. If, within said 90-day period, the owner brings the
business, residence or other structure into compliance and is inspected by the
city or a licensed civil engineer, at the owner’s expense, the surcharge will
be removed. If there is not compliance within 90 days, the $80 surcharge will
be levied each quarter until compliance.
   (B)   Waiver of sewer surcharge. The sewer surcharge shall be removed from
charges for water use only that meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The water is conducted from the main to the ultimate user through a
separate water line installed at the expense of the user, including a separate
hookup fee;
      (2)   All such water is measured through a separate meter;
      (3)   Substantially all of the water is utilized to maintain public
grounds or private grounds having a contiguous area not less than one acre
which support natural vegetation and which are maintained; and
      (4)   The user has obtained a permit from the City Council for waiver of
the sewer surcharge.
(Prior Code, § 25.46)
§ 50.43 WELL SETBACK ZONE.
   (A)   The use or attempt to use a potable water supply, groundwater from an
area within a 2,500-foot radius of 536 N. State Street, 600 N. State Street and
602 N. State Street, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other
method is hereby prohibited, except at points of withdrawal by the city. The
continued use of wells within this radius shall not be prohibited so long as
they are in operation on the effective date of this section (August 25, 2000).
Only the installation of new wells within said radius from the effective date
of this section forward shall be required to be in compliance.
   (B)   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 415 ILCS 5/14.1 et seq., and
except as provided herein, no person shall place a new potential primary
source, new potential secondary source or new potential route within the
minimum setback zone of Well No. 8, 107 Lynn Drive, IEPA #1110650; Well No.7,
Greenlee and N. Lynn Drive, IEPA #00849; and Well No. 6, Greenlee and Prospect,
IEPA #20193.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority conferred by 415 ILCS 5/14.1 et seq., and
except as provided herein, no person shall place a new potential primary source
within the maximum setback zone of Well No. 8, 107 Lynn Drive, IEPA #1110650;
Well No. 7, Greenlee and N. Lynn Drive, IEPA #00849; and Well No. 6, Greenlee
and Prospect, IEPA #20193.
   (D)   Waivers, exceptions and certifications of minimal hazard shall be
pursuant to 415 ILCS 5/14.2.
(Prior Code, § 25.47) (Ord. 05-11-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44 ANNUAL WATER AND SEWER RATE AND FEE ADJUSTMENT.
   All potable water and sanitary sewer connection fees and charges shall be
subject to annual review as part of the city’s budget preparation process and
adjusted to ensure that revenues derived from these fees and charges meet the
budgeted operating costs of the Water and Wastewater/Sewer Divisions of the
Department of Public Works. These adjusted charges and fees shall apply to
readings taken after March 1 of each year starting in 2026.
(Prior Code, § 25.48) (Ord. 06-5-3, passed - -; Ord. 18-6-2, passed - -; Ord.
26-4-2, passed 4-13-2026)
§ 50.45 WATER AND WASTEWATER CAPITAL ASSET MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT FEE.
   All users of the water and wastewater system, both within and outside the
corporate limits of the city, shall pay a water and wastewater capital asset
maintenance and replacement fee in the amount of $20 per quarter billing cycle,
to be used specifically for undertaking the maintenance and repairs necessary
for the continued functioning of the existing water treatment/distribution and
wastewater conveyance/treatment systems. This fee shall be reviewed and updated
annually based on the identified maintenance and replacement needs of the water
and wastewater systems.
(Ord. 26-4-2, passed 4-13-2026)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
50.13 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $1,000 for each offense,
plus the city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Each
day that a violation continues to occur shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 25.17)
   (C)   (1)   Any person or entity violating §§
50.33 or
50.34 resulting in a blockage of the city’s wastewater facility sewer main,
shall be liable for the cost of damages done to affected properties and payment
of a fine of not less than $750, plus all costs incurred by the city to remove
the sewer main blockage, install service line screens and payment of all
attorneys’ fee incurred by the city to prosecute such violation(s). In
addition, the violator shall be subject to disconnection of water and sanitary
sewer service until all such fines and fees are paid in full.
      (2)   Unless another penalty is specifically provided by this chapter for
the violation of any particular section hereof, other than §§
50.33 or
50.34, any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $200, nor more than $1,000,
plus all cost related to remediation, restitution and prosecution, including,
but not limited to, filing fees, witness fees and attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 25.49)
(Ord. 05-11-4, passed - -; Ord. 22-3-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Cross-connection control general policy
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Water system
   
51.04   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.05   Survey and investigations
   
51.06   Where protection is required
§ 51.01 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contaminant or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substance of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rule and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or backsiphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Public Works Coordinator or his or her
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply device, the Public Works Coordinator
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense.
Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in §
51.05(D)(4) for a period of at least five years. The Public Works Coordinator
may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the
Water and Wastewater Division to assist in determining whether or not service
line protection will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a cross-connection control device inspector certified by the IEPA.
(Prior Code, § 26.01)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams; or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code and the IEPA.
   CCDI. The Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector approved by the city and
the IEPA.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   COORDINATOR. The Public Works Coordinator or the authorized representative.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 101 5. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPERTY AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential damage to the health and well-
being of consumers. For the purpose of this definition, the word SEVERE means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing Code,
77 I.A.C. 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 I.A.C. 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances tor a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units, up to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances tor a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the
point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 I.A.C. 604 for
drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply.”
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valve at less than the supply pressure.
The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of
the DEVICE, and each DEVICE shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
the customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form and should not
be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 26.02)
§ 51.03 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Public Works Coordinator up to
the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
      (1)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
      (2)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s
water system.
   (C)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, § 26.03)
§ 51.04 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Generally. Connections between potable water systems and other systems
or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Prior Code, § 26.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
CCCDI for the inspection of the presence or absence of cross-connections within
the consumer’s premises, and testing, repair and maintenance of cross-
connection control devices within the consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request by the Public Works Coordinator, the consumer shall furnish
information regarding the piping system or systems or water use within the
customer’s premises. The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable
times to the Public Works Coordinator for the verification of information
submitted by the consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-
connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring the following.
      (1)   Approved use. All cross-connections are removed; or approved cross-
connection control devices are installed for control of backflow and
backsiphonage.
      (2)   Installation. Cross-connection control devices shall be installed
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (3)   Inspection. Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
Agency as a CCCDI. The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical
testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the Water and Wastewater Division shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e).
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent rest, name of CCCDI and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Service performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, § 26.05)
§ 51.06 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 I.A.C. 890 and
the Agency’s regulation, 35 I.A.C. 681. In addition, an approved backflow
prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a consumer’s water
system serving premises, where in the judgment of the Public Works Coordinator,
actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Public Works Coordinator and
the source is approved by the Agency; and
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Public Works Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 26.06)
CHAPTER 52: GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
Section
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Purpose and intent
   
52.03   Authority and applicability
   
52.04   Extent and designations
   
52.05   Definitions
   
52.06   Permits
   
52.07   GPPA setback zones
   
52.08   Unauthorized releases
   
52.09   Enforcement
   
52.10   Notice of violation
   
52.11   Appeals
   
52.12   Severability
   
52.13   Saving clause
 
   
52.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Best Management Practices for the Construction Industry
   
Appendix B: Chemical Substance Management Plan
   
Appendix C: Wellhead Protection Planning Map for Marengo (110650)
Cross-reference:
Water pollution zoning performance standards, see §
158.223
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
Groundwater Protection Ordinance for the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In the interest of securing and promoting the public health, safety
and welfare to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater resources in
order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for the present and future
generations, and to protect and preserve groundwater resources currently in use
and those aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water supply,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all properties located within the
groundwater protection planning area (GPPA). This chapter establishes
regulations for activities within the GPPAs for: inspection and monitoring
standards for new and existing chemical substance facilities; uniform standards
for release reporting; emergency response; substance management planning;
permit procedures; and enforcement.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to provide a method:
      (l)   To protect the groundwater resources of the city and the
surrounding area;
      (2)   To provide a means of regulating management activities within the
groundwater protection areas;
      (3)   To protect the city’s drinking water supply within the GPPA from
potential impacts by facilities that store, handle, treat, use or produce
substances that pose a hazard to groundwater quality; and
      (4)   To manage activities that store, handle or produce chemical
substances for the protection of present and future groundwater sources within
the GPPA.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 52.03 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is passed pursuant to authority conferred upon
municipalities by the following sections in the state municipal code: 65 ILCS
5/11-12-4 et seq., 5/11-13-1 et seq. and 5/11-60-2 et seq; 50 ILCS 805/1 et
seq.; 415 ILCS 5/1 through 5n.5 and 30/1 et seq.; and 451 ILCS.
   (B)   The Groundwater Protection Committee (“Committee”) is designated as
the Groundwater Protection Technical Advisory Committee (“GPTAC”). Committee
members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council. (The words Committee and GPTAC are interchangeable in this chapter.)
Committee members shall serve until their successor is appointed. The Mayor may
consider appointing Committee members from the City Water and Wastewater
Division and Building Department, the Administrator, the City Fire Protection
District and other consultants. The purposes and duties of the GPTAC are to:
      (1)   Administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other
appropriate sections of this code;
      (2)   Provide technical support and recommendations to the Water and
Wastewater Division concerning the technical definition and criteria of any
groundwater protection area as described in §
52.04;
      (3)   Advise the Building Department when the GPTAC determines that
performance standards should be amended;
      (4)   Provide technical support and recommendations to the City Council
concerning any application made to it;
      (5)   Advise the Building Department when the GPTAC determined that this
chapter or any regulation or rule promulgated pursuant to the chapter should be
amended; and
      (6)   Hold public meetings on appeals.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Committee to make a
determination of the applicability of this chapter as it pertains to property
within the city.
   (D)   All facilities within a groundwater protection area must comply with
this chapter prior to the issuance of any underlying permits. Existing
facilities which are not applying for an underlying permit should have come
into compliance by May 21, 1999, which was one year from the effective date the
ordinance establishing these provisions was passed.
   (E)   The following are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   De minimus usage of chemical substances: Facilities that use, store
or handle chemical substances in 250-pound aggregate quantities or less, or if
in liquid form, 30 gallons or less aggregate quantities during any calendar
year; and
      (2)   Single-family residences, provided that no home business is
operated on the premises.
   (F)   The following are exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Department of Transportation licensed fuel tanks and fluid
reservoirs attached to a private or commercial motor vehicle and used directly
in the operation of that vehicle;
      (2)   The activities of construction, repaving or maintaining any
facility or improvement on lands within Zones 1, 2 or 3, provided that all
contractors, subcontractor, laborers, material workers and their employees when
using, handling, storing or producing chemical substances in Zones 1, 2 or 3
use those applicable best management practices set forth in Appendix A,
attached hereto and incorporated herein;
      (3)   Activities specifically regulated under 35 I.A.C. 601.615, 616 and
617 (regulations for existing and new activities within setback zones and
regulated recharge areas); 8 I.A.C. 255 and 256 (regulations for secondary
containment for agricultural pesticide and fertilizer facilities); and 8 I.A.C.
257 (cooperative groundwater protection program for agricultural chemical
facilities within appropriate setback zones);
      (4)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route is granted an exception by the City
Council (other than land filling or land treating) pursuant to the Act, such
owner shall not be subject to this chapter to the same extent that such owner
is not subject to the Act; and
      (5)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route is issued a certificate of minimal
hazard by the Agency pursuant to the Act, such owner shall not be subject to
this ordinance to the same extent that such owner is not subject to the Act.
   (G)   Any action by the Agency or City Council referred to in this section
shall not be final and binding on the city under this ordinance until the city
has received notice of such proposed action and has had reasonable opportunity
to present evidence concerning its interest.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. 05-3-2, passed - -)
§ 52.04 EXTENT AND DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all properties located
within the minimum setback zone (Zone 1) established under § 14.2 of the
Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/14.2) and this chapter, the maximum
setback zone (Zone 2) established under § 14.3 of the Environmental Protection
Act (415 ILCS 5/14.3) and this chapter, the Five-Year Recharge Zone (Zone 3)
which is hereby established as all real property parcels located wholly or
partially within the limits of the recharge area drawn on the official map
entitled Wellhead Protection Planning Map for Marengo (110650) (see Appendix C)
which was compiled pursuant to § 17.1 of the Environmental Protection Act (415
ILCS 5/17.1) and is hereby adopted by reference as part of this chapter as if
the maps were fully described herein, and such other areas as the city may
hereafter establish as minimum and maximum setback zones and/or wellhead
protection areas pursuant to these authorities.
   (B)   In determining the location of properties within the zones depicted on
the map(s), the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Properties located wholly within one zone reflected on the
applicable map(s), shall be governed by the restrictions applicable to that
zone;
      (2)   Properties having parts lying within more than one zone reflected
on the applicable map(s) shall be governed by the restrictions applicable to
the zone in which each part of the property is located; and
      (3)   Where a travel-time contour which delineates the boundary between
two zones passes through a building, the entire building shall be considered to
be in that zone which is most restrictive as of the adoption date of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 08-2-1, passed - -)
§ 52.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in the State
Environmental Protection Act and the State Groundwater Protection Act (415 ILCS
5/14 et seq.), as amended from time to time, as well as the following
definitions, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACT. The State Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.).
   AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
   AQUIFER. Saturated (with groundwater) soils and geologic materials which are
sufficiently permeable to readily yield economically useful quantities of water
to readily yield economically useful quantities of water to wells, springs or
streams under ordinary hydraulic gradients.
   BOARD. The State Pollution Control Board.
   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE. Any “extremely hazardous substance” listed in Appendix A
of 40 C.F.R. part 355, “any hazardous substance” listed in 40 C.F.R. § 302.4,
and any petroleum, including crude oil or any fraction thereof.
   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SOURCE OF GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION. A unit at a facility
or site that stores or accumulates more than 250 pounds aggregate quantities or
less, or if in liquid form 30 gallons or less aggregate quantities during any
calendar year.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A device that is designed to contain an unauthorized
release, retain it for cleanup and prevent released materials from penetrating
into the ground.
   FACILITY. The building and all real property contiguous thereto, and the
equipment at a single location used for the conduct of business (430 ILCS 45/
3).
   GROUNDWATER. Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES. Zones of the GPPA designated to
provide differential levels of protection. Each GPPA is subdivided into three
GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES as described below and as illustrated in
the attached exhibits.
      (1)   ZONE 1: MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The geographic area located between a
well or a well field providing potable water supply and a radial area of 400
feet (as shown in Appendix C) or within 200 feet of a non-community or private
potable water supply well.
      (2)   ZONE 2: MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The geographic area located between a
well or a well field providing potable water to a community water supply and a
regular or irregularly shaped area not to exceed 1,000 feet from the wellhead,
but excluding the minimum setback zone.
      (3)   ZONE 3: FIVE-YEAR CAPTURE ZONE. The geographic area located between
a well or a well field providing potable water to a community water supply and
the delineated five-year zone of capture, but excluding Zones 1 and 2.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION PLANNING AREA (GPPA). The portion of an aquifer
within the five-year capture zone of a well or well field.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION PERMIT. An authorization by the city for a person to
store, handle, use or produce a chemical substance sources within a GPPA. A
GROUNDWATER PROTECTION PERMIT can include either a development, operating or
closure permit pursuant to this chapter.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE (GPTAC). A committee
appointed by the Mayor which reviews materials to determine compliance with
this chapter. Committee members may include representatives from the Water and
Wastewater Division, Building and Zoning Department, City Fire Protection
District, City Council members, City Administrator and/or other professionals
as deemed necessary.
   NEW CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE SOURCE OF GROUNDWATER CONTAMINATION.
      (1)   A chemical substance source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of the effective date of this
regulation.
      (2)   A chemical substance source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the chemical substance source is not
permitted, the boundary in existence as of the effective date of this chapter
(February 22, 2001).
      (3)   A chemical substance source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components, constructed
within a two-year period, exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
   NEW POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE.
      (1)   A potential primary source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location, on the effective date of
passage of this chapter (February 22, 2001);
      (2)   A potential primary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary, or if the primary source is not permitted, the
boundary, or if the primary source is not permitted, the boundary in existence;
or
      (3)   A potential primary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility. Construction shall be deemed commenced when all
necessary federal, state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at
the site has been initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to
completion.
   NEW POTENTIAL ROUTE.
      (1)   A potential which is not in existence or for which construction has
not commenced at its location; or
      (2)   A potential route which expands laterally beyond the currently
permitted boundary or, if the potential route is not permitted, the boundary in
existence. Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   NEW POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE.
      (1)   A potential secondary source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location;
      (2)   A potential secondary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary of, if the secondary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence, other than an expansion for handling of livestock waste
or for treating domestic wastewaters; or
      (3)   A potential secondary source which is a part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility. Construction shall be deemed commenced when all
necessary federal, state and local approval have been obtained, and work at the
site has been initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to
completion.
   OPERATOR. Any person in control of, or having responsibility for daily
operation of a facility.
   OWNER. Any person who owns a site, facility or unit, or part of a site,
facility or unit, or who owns the land on which the site, facility or unit is
located.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, public or private corporation, firm,
association, joint venture, trust, partnership, municipality, governmental
agency, political subdivision, public officer, owner, lessee, tenant or any
other entity whatsoever or any combination of such, jointly or severally.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes meeting currently accepted water supply practices and
principals.
   POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the treatment, storage or disposal of any hazardous
or special waste not generated at the site;
      (2)   Is utilized for the disposal of municipal waste not generated at
the site, other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris;
      (3)   Is utilized for the land filling, land treating, surface impounding
or piling of any hazardous or special waste that is generated on the site or at
other sites owned, controlled or operated by the same person; or
      (4)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 75,000 pounds above
ground, or more than 7,500 pounds below ground of any hazardous substances.
   POTENTIAL ROUTE. Abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds,
drainage wells, all injection wells, including closed loop heat pump wells, and
any excavation for the discovery, development or production of stone, sand or
gravel.
   POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or a site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action, other than a potential primary source
which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the land filling, land treating or surface
impounding of waste that is generated on the site or at other sites owned,
controlled or operated by the same person, other than livestock and landscape
waste, and construction and demolition debris;
      (2)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 pounds but not
more than 75,000 pounds above ground or more than 2,500 pounds but not more
than 7,500 pounds below ground of any hazardous substances;
      (3)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 gallons above
ground, or more than 500 gallons below ground of petroleum, including crude oil
or any fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or
designated as a hazardous substance;
      (4)   Stores or accumulates pesticides, fertilizers or road oils for
purposes of commercial application, or for distribution to retail sales
outlets;
      (5)   Stores or accumulates at any one time more than 50,000 pounds of
any deicing agent; or
      (6)   Is utilized for handling livestock waste or for treating domestic
wastewaters other than private sewage disposal systems as defined in the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act (225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.).
   RECHARGE AREA. The area through which precipitation and surface water can
enter an aquifer.
   SATURATED ZONE. The zone in which the voids in the rock or soil are filled
with water at a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
   SETBACK ZONE. A geographic area designated pursuant to the Act and this
chapter containing a potable water supply well or a potential source or
potential route having a continuous boundary, and within which certain
prohibitions or regulations are applicable in order to protect groundwater.
   SITE. Any location, place, tract of land or facilities, including, but not
limited to, buildings and improvements used for purposes subject to regulations
or control by the Act or regulations thereunder.
   UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging,
escaping, leaching or disposing of a chemical substance sources in a quantity
greater than one gallon from a facility into a containment device into the air,
into groundwater, surface water, surface soils or subsurface soils.
UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE does not include intentional withdrawals of chemical
substances for the purposes of legitimate sale, use or disposal and discharges
permitted under federal, state or local law.
   UNDERLYING PERMIT. Includes the building permits, septic permits, erosion,
sediment and stormwater control permits, entry access permit and well permits
required by the city.
   UNIT. Any device, mechanism, equipment or area (exclusive of land utilized
only for agricultural production).
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, driven, dug, fitted or
otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for the
location, diversion, artificial recharge or acquisition of groundwater.
   WELL FIELD. An area which contains one or more wells for obtaining a potable
water supply.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 52.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   General conditions.
      (1)   No person, persons, corporation or other legal entities shall
install or operate a facility in a GPPA without first obtaining a groundwater
protection permit from the Building Commissioner. Prior to issuance, the
Committee shall approve the application.
      (2)   The review for all permits shall be on the types of substances that
will be stored, handled, treated, used or produced and the potential for these
substances to degrade groundwater quality.
      (3)   For new facilities, all permits required pursuant to this chapter
must be issued prior to or concurrent with the issuance of permits for
construction activities or underlying permits.
      (4)   Existing facilities shall submit an application for a permit within
one year of the passage of this chapter or within one year of the facility’s
being included in a GPPA. The application must include a proposed schedule of
compliance.
      (5)   A permit shall not be issued for a facility unless adequate plans,
specifications, test data and/or other appropriate information has been
submitted by the owner and/or operator showing that the proposed design and
construction of the facility does not impact the long-term, short-term or
cumulative quality of the aquifer.
      (6)   The facility owner shall apply to the city for permit renewal at
least 90 days prior to the expiration of the permit.
      (7)   If an inspection of the facility reveals noncompliance, then the
city must verify by a follow-up inspection that all required corrections have
been implemented before renewing the permit.
      (8)   For new activities located in Zone 1, Zone 2 or Zone 3 and
regulated by the above requirements, the applicant for a site plan review has
the burden of proof that the proposed activity will not adversely affect
groundwater. All applications shall be prepared and considered pursuant to the
city’s existing site plan review ordinance and shall include written
information and plan (map) information. In addition, certain management
activities may require site plan reviews with additional information as
required by this chapter, the GPTAC and/or the City Council.
   (B)   Development permits.
      (1)   The application for development permits pursuant to this chapter
shall be made on a form provided by the city and shall be accompanied by a fee
of $500. The extension application fee shall be $100.
      (2)   Applications for development permits shall be submitted at least 90
days before the expected start of construction.
      (3)   Development permits expire one year from the date of issuance
unless construction has started, the owner/operator of the facility or
authorized agent shall request an extension of development permit(s). If the
construction period is expected to exceed one year, a request for extension
shall be filed with the city at least 90 days prior to the permit expiration
date.
      (4)   The development permit application shall include, in addition to
the other requirements set forth in the zoning regulations and subdivision and
other land use regulations, the following information:
         (a)   Name(s), addresses and phone number(s) of all owner(s) and/or
operators of the property and/or facility. If occupant is not owner, copies of
all leases pertaining to the facility must be provided;
         (b)   Property address, legal description and permanent identification
(PIN) number for the facility;
         (c)   Description of proposed use, type of use or activity, commercial
(trades and services), industrial (manufacturing and processing), product
produced and Standard Industrial Code (S.I.C.) if applicable;
         (d)   A description of the containment devices designed to comply with
the requirements of this chapter and the procedures for inspection and
maintenance of containment devices; and
         (e)   A copy of engineering plans prepared by a state registered
professional engineer showing the following:
            1.   Location of all public water supply wells within 1,000 feet of
the development;
            2.   Location of all private drinking water supply wells, streams
and other watercourses tributary to any Class A stream within 1,000 feet of the
development;
            3.   The location of the facility and its property boundaries and
the location(s), size(s) and length(s) of all existing structures, including
buildings, above and underground utilities;
            4.   A map, at scale no greater than one inch equals 200 feet
indicating geographic north and the location of the property and all proposed
improvements thereon and their geographic relationship by the depiction of the
city’s corporate boundaries and the groundwater protection planning areas;
            5.   A site plan and building floor plan showing hazardous
materials loading, storage, handling and process areas, floor drains, process
vents, sewage disposal and waste storage or disposal areas; including the
location where substances regulated by this chapter are stored, handled,
treated, used or produced and the locations of each containment device; and
            6.   Floodplain/stormwater delineation.
   (C)   Operating permits.
      (1)   The operation permit application shall be filed with the city when
construction is complete. An operating permit is required for all projects
which require a development permit. The approved operating permit shall be
obtained before the project is placed in service or any chemical substances are
permitted to be delivered to, or generated on the site.
      (2)   The application for operating permits pursuant to this chapter
shall be made on a form provided by the city and shall be accompanied by such
other documents, certifications and other materials as the Building and Zoning
Department shall require, and a fee of $100. An operating permit issued by the
city shall be effective for one year. The city shall not issue a permit to
operate a facility until the city has determined that the facility complies
with the provisions of these regulations.
      (3)   The application for operating permits shall be submitted at least
15 days before putting the facility in operation.
      (4)   The operating permit application shall include:
         (a)   A report certified by a state registered professional engineer
which will demonstrate that the development permit requirements and conditions
have been met in all respects; and
         (b)   The owner and/or operator certification that a chemical
substance management plan is available upon inspection. (Contents of a chemical
substance management plan may be found in Appendix B of this chapter.)
      (5)   Operating permits may be transferred to a new facility owner/
operator if the new facility owner/operator does not change any conditions of
the permit, if the transfer is registered with the city within 30 days of the
change in ownership, and any necessary modifications are made to the
information in the initial permit application due to the change in ownership.
      (6)   Within 30 days of receiving an inspection report with permit
deficiencies for the city, the operating permit holder shall file with the city
a plan to implement any required modifications to the facility or to the
monitoring plan needed to achieve compliance with the intent of this chapter of
the permit conditions. This plan shall also implement all of the
recommendations set out by the city. The city shall determine the time period
for implementing the city’s recommendations correcting any deficiencies.
   (D)   Closure permits.
      (1)   No person shall close or cause to be closed a facility regulated
pursuant to this chapter without first obtaining a closure permit from the
city. The city shall not issue a permit to temporarily or permanently close a
facility unless adequate plans and specifications and other appropriate
information have been submitted by the applicant showing that the proposed
closure meets the intent and provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The application for a closure permit shall be submitted at least 90
days before closure.
      (3)   The application for a closure permit pursuant to this chapter shall
be made on a form provided by the city and shall be accompanied by a fee of
$200.
      (4)   Closure permits shall be required for all facilities that cease to
store, handle, treat, use or produce chemical substances for a period of more
than 365 days or when the owner has no intent within the next year to store,
handle, treat, use or produce chemical substances. During the period of time
between cessation of chemical substance storage, handling, treatment, use or
production, and actual completion of facility closure, the applicable
containment and monitoring requirements of this chapter shall continue to
apply.
      (5)   Prior to closure, the facility owner shall submit to the city a
plan describing how the owner intends to comply with closure requirements.
Owners proposing to close a facility shall comply with the following
requirements: Chemical substances shall be removed from the facility, including
residential liquids, solids or sludges to levels specified in the approved
closure plan. Any residues generated from the closure activities shall be
disposed of in compliance with the Act.
      (6)   The owner of a facility being closed shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of city that closure has been completed in accordance with the
approved plan submitted pursuant to division (D)(4) above.
      (7)   Facility closure will be accepted as complete by the city upon
implementation of the closure permit conditions and compliance with all
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Special provisions for all permits.
      (1)   Right of inspection. The permittee shall allow any agent duly
authorized by the city upon presentation of credentials, and in accordance with
the constitutional limitations to:
         (a)   Enter at reasonable times, the permittee’s premises where the
permitted facility is located or where any activity is to be conducted pursuant
to a permit;
         (b)   Have access to and copy at reasonable times any records required
to be kept under the terms and conditions of permit; and
         (c)   Inspect at reasonable times, including during any hours of
operation:
            1.   Equipment constructed or operated under the permit;
            2.   Equipment or monitoring methodology; and
            3.   Equipment required to be kept, used, operated, calibrated and
maintained under the permit
      (2)   Permit limitations. All permits issued under this chapter shall not
be valid until applications for all other permits required at this facility
have been made and received.
      (3)   Revisions and alterations. Any proposed deviation from plans and
specifications previously approved by the city shall require approval by the
city before such changes are made. Examples of changes are those which affect
the location, capacity, hydraulic conditions, operating units or functioning of
containment or monitoring devices.
   (F)   Permit applications and review process.
      (1)   Filing of applications and final action by the city.
         (a)   The filing date is the date when the city receives the
application.
         (b)   The city shall take final action by granting or denying
development, closure or renewal permits within 90 days of the filing of the
application. The city shall take final action by granting or denying operating
permits within 30 days of filing the application. Applicants may waive the time
limitations by advising the city in writing.
      (2)   Permit application review.
         (a)   When a permit application is submitted to the Committee, the
Committee shall reject the application or issue a permit within 30 days after
submittal. In the event the application is rejected, the reasons shall be put
in writing.
         (b)   Permit applications shall not be considered accepted until all
required documentation has been filed with the Committee. The city shall have
available to the public, in written form, what documentation shall accompany an
application.
(Prior Code, § 30.06) (Ord. 05-3-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 GPPA SETBACK ZONES.
   (A)   Regulations which apply within the minimum setback zone (Zone 1) of
the GPPA.
      (1)   Prohibited uses and activities.
         (a)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route within the minimum setback zone(s) of
any existing or permitted community water supply well in the city.
         (b)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall alter or change an existing potential primary source,
potential secondary source or potential route where the alteration or change
would result in a potential source or route that would be prohibited under this
chapter if it were a new potential source or route within the minimum setback
zones.
      (2)   Review and approval of proposed activities.
         (a)   All proposals for new chemical substance sources within the
minimum setback zone (Zone 1) must be reviewed by the city for compliance with
this chapter, including the issuance of a groundwater protection permit
pursuant to this chapter prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
         (b)   No groundwater protection permit shall be issued unless a
finding is made by the city that the proposal will not impact the long-term,
short-term or cumulative quality of aquifer. The find shall be based on the
present or past land use activities conducted at the chemical substance source,
chemical substances stored, handled, treated, used or produced and the
potential for the activities or chemical substances to degrade groundwater
quality.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
   (B)   Regulations which apply within the maximum setback zone (Zone 2) of
the GPPA.
      (1)   Prohibited uses and activities.
         (a)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum
setback zone(s) of any existing or permitted community water supply well in the
city.
         (b)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall alter or change an existing potential primary source
where the alteration or change would result in a potential source or route that
would be prohibited under this chapter if it were a new potential source or
route within the maximum setback zones.
      (2)   Review and approval of proposed activities.
         (a)   All proposals for new chemical substance sources which use,
store, handle, treat or produce a chemical substance within the maximum setback
zone (Zone 2) must be reviewed by the city for compliance with this chapter,
including obtaining a groundwater protection permit pursuant to this chapter
prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
         (b)   No groundwater protection permit shall be issued unless a
finding is made by the city that the proposal will not impact the long-term,
short-term or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding shall be based on
the present or past land use activities conducted at the facility, chemical
substances stored, handled, treated, used or produced, and the potential for
the activities or chemical substances to degrade groundwater quality.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
   (C)   Regulation which apply within the five-year capture zone (Zone 3) of
the GPPA.
      (1)   All proposals for new chemical substance sources within the five-
year capture zone (Zone 3) must be reviewed by the city for compliance with
this chapter, including obtaining a groundwater protection permit pursuant to
this chapter prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
      (2)   No groundwater protection permit shall be issued unless a finding
is made by the city that the proposal will not impact the long-term, short-term
or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding shall be based on the present
or past land use activities conducted at the chemical substance source,
chemical substances stored, handled, treated, used or produced, and the
potential for the activities or chemical substances to degrade groundwater
quality.
(Prior Code, § 30.09)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 UNAUTHORIZED RELEASES.
   (A)   General provisions. Any unplanned release is unauthorized and must be
either reported to the City Fire Protection District or recorded in the owner’s
inspection and maintenance log according to the provisions of this section. An
unauthorized release is an “unauthorized release requiring recording” if the
release is completely captured by the containment device. If the containment
device fails to contain the entire release, the release is an “unauthorized
release requiring reporting.” Reporting a release to the City Fire Protection
District does not exempt or preempt any other reporting requirements under
federal, state or local laws.
   (B)   Unauthorized releases requiring recording. Unauthorized releases
requiring recording shall be reported in the facility’s operating report.
   (C)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting.
      (1)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting shall be verbally
reported to the City Fire Protection District immediately.
      (2)   A written report shall be submitted promptly thereafter containing
the following information that is known at the time of filing the report:
         (a)   List of type, quantity and concentration of chemical substance
(s) released;
         (b)   The results of all investigations completed at that time to
determine the extent of soil or groundwater or surface water contamination
because of the release;
         (c)   Method of cleanup implemented to date, proposed cleanup actions
and approximate cost of actions taken to date;
         (d)   Method and location of disposal of the released chemical
substance sources and any contaminated soils, groundwater or surface water;
         (e)   Proposed method of repair or replacement of the containment
device; and
         (f)   Chemical substance source owner’s name and telephone numbers.
      (3)   Until cleanup is complete, the owner shall submit reports
containing the reporting required by this division (C) to the city, every month
or at a more frequent interval specified by the inspector.
      (4)   The city shall either find that the containment standards of this
chapter can continue to be achieved or shall recommend the revocation of the
permit until appropriate modifications are made to allow compliance with the
standards.
      (5)   The chemical substance source owner and/or operator jointly and
severally shall be responsible for any costs incurred by the city or its
authorized agents in the conduct of such remedial actions, including, but not
limited to, all consultant, engineering and attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 30.10)
§ 52.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Committee shall be the administering agency and shall have the
power and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
The city shall have the right to conduct inspections of chemical substance
sources at reasonable times to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The city may revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter after
notice to the permittee and after affording the permittee an opportunity to
meet either in person or by telephone if it finds that the permit holder:
      (1)   Has failed or refused to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Has submitted false or inaccurate information in a permit
application;
      (3)   Has refused lawful inspection; and
      (4)   Has an unauthorized release and the Groundwater Protection
Technical Advisory Committee finds that the containment standards of this
chapter cannot continue to be achieved.
(Prior Code, § 30.12) (Ord. 05-3-2, passed - -)
§ 52.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter, the
notice of violation issued shall:
   (A)   Be in writing and delivered to the owner or operator by certified/
registered mail;
   (B)   Be dated and signed by the authorized city agent making the
inspection;
   (C)   Specify the violation or violations; and
   (D)   Specify the length of time to correct the violation after receiving
the notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 30.13)
§ 52.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any decision made by the GTPAC or Building Department pursuant to this
chapter may be appealed to the City Council.
   (B)   Appeals to the City Council take place by filing an appeal in writing
with the city within 15 days after receipt of a decision in writing by the
GTPAC.
   (C)   A hearing with the City Council will be held within 60 days of
submission of the appeal or petition.
(Prior Code, § 30.14) (Ord. 05-3-2, passed - -)
§ 52.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this chapter, or any part thereof, or application thereof to any person is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction. Such a decision shall not affect the validity
of effectiveness of the of the remaining portions of this chapter or any part
thereof. It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the City Council
that this chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid
provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part thereof not then been
included.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 52.13 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this chapter hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit
or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability
incurred, or any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or any rights
acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or
existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor and a nuisance. It shall be a separate offense for each and every
day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted.
   (B)   Any owner or operator who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be subject, upon conviction in court, to a fine not to exceed $500 per
day, per chemical substance source.
   (C)   In addition to any fines and penalties set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) above, the owner or operator shall reimburse the city for all reasonable
costs incurred as a result of responding to, containing, cleaning up or
monitoring the cleaning up and disposal of any spilled or leaked chemical
substance sources, including, but not limited to, consultant, engineering and
legal fees.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
APPENDIX A: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY.
   (A)   The general contractor or, if none, the property owner, shall be
responsible for assuring that each contractor or subcontractor evaluates each
site before construction is initiated to determine if any site conditions may
pose particular problems for the handling of any chemical substances. For
instance, handling chemical substance(s) in the proximity of a Groundwater
Protection Overlay Zone or water bodies may be improper.
   (B)   If any chemical substances are stored on the construction site during
the construction process, they shall be stored in a location and manner which
will minimize any possible risk of release to the environment. Any storage of
55 gallons (208 liters), or 440 pounds (200 kilograms), or more, containing
chemical substances shall have constructed below it an impervious containment
system constructed of materials of sufficient thickness, density and
composition that will prevent the discharge to the land, groundwater or surface
water of any pollutant which may emanate from said storage container or
containers. Each containment system shall be able to contain 110% of the
contents of all storage containers above the containment system.
   (C)   Each contractor shall familiarize him/herself with the manufacturer’s
safety data sheet supplied with each material containing a chemical substance
sources and shall be familiar with procedures required to contain and clean up
any releases of the chemical substance. Any tools or equipment necessary to
accomplish same shall be available in case of a release.
   (D)   Upon completion of construction, all unused and waste chemical
substances and containment systems shall be removed from the construction site
by the responsible contractor and shall be disposed of in a proper manner as
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 30, Exhibit A)
APPENDIX B: CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A chemical substance management plan shall be required as a condition of
each operating permit. If a spill prevention control plan (SPCC), best
practices management plan or similar contingency plan has been prepared in
accordance with the state or with the United States Environmental Protection
Agency requirements; a chemical substance management plan (CSMP) is not
required as long as all of the chemical substances and requirements of a CSMP
are included in the spill prevention control plan. The chemical substance
management plan shall include:
   (A)   The names and volumes of all chemical substances which are to be
stored, handled, treated, used or produced at the facility being permitted
quantities greater than the minimum amounts specified by this chapter;
   (B)   Location of adjacent (within 400 feet of the property line) public or
private drinking water supply wells;
   (C)   A brief description of the manner in which the on-site chemical
substances are stored and used;
   (D)   A potential release assessment and the response procedures to be
followed at the chemical substance source for notifying the local emergency
response agencies; and
   (E)   Any management measures that are employed to reduce the potential for
releases.
(Prior Code, Chapter 30, Exhibit B)
APPENDIX C: WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLANNING MAP FOR MARENGO (110650)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1628.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 30, Exhibit C)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Reclaimed vehicles, expense
   
70.03   Careless driving
   
70.04   Vehicle weight limitation
   
70.05   Compression/release engine brake use prohibited
   
70.06   Vehicles for sale
   
70.07   Loading zone
   
70.08   Alleys
   
70.09   Taxicab stands; bus stands
   
70.10   License required
   
70.11   Abandoned vehicle
   
70.12   Street cleaning
   
70.13   Off-street storage of vehicles
   
70.14   Vehicle impoundment
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/20-204 of the State Vehicle Code, the city hereby
adopts and incorporates by reference all paragraphs and sections of the State
Vehicle Code and subsequent amendments (625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.) in whole. The
section numbers used in the State Vehicle Code shall be identical to those
section numbers in this traffic code except that the code sections shall be
preceded by the number “70” in accordance with a directive from the county
circuit clerk.
(Prior Code, § 15.01) (Ord. 01-7-1, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-8, passed - -)
§ 70.02 RECLAIMED VEHICLES, EXPENSE.
   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/4-207 (State Vehicle Code), any vehicle impounded by
the city shall not be released to the owner, lienholder or other person until
all towing and storage charges incurred by the city have been paid in full. If
the city stores the vehicle on city property, a storage charge shall be paid to
the city. The charge for said storage shall be $50 per day.
(Prior Code, § 15.10) (Ord. 09-5-2, passed - -)
§ 70.03 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive carelessly within the city. For
the purpose of this section, CARELESS DRIVING means the failure to maintain a
vehicle under control, exceeding the posted speed limit by more than ten mph
and operating a vehicle in any manner other than as permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 15.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATION.
   (A)   Weight limitation. It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle with a
registered flat weight over 8,000 pounds upon any city roadway, except as
expressly provided by division (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   Exceptions; vehicles. The following vehicles are exempt from the
vehicle weight restrictions set forth in division (A) above:
      (1)   Vehicles operated upon any officially established detour route or
pursuant to specific direction by a police officer of the city or other law
enforcement agency, provided that the vehicle would comply with any weight
limitations applicable to the roadway from which the detour or deviation was
required;
      (2)   Vehicles making local deliveries, provided that the vehicle
operator uses the shortest maneuverable route on weight-restricted roadways
before and after making the local delivery;
      (3)   Emergency vehicles;
      (4)   Government owned vehicles;
      (5)   Public utility company vehicles while conducting maintenance or
repairs;
      (6)   School buses;
      (7)   Garbage trucks operating in accordance with all applicable city
ordinances, state statutes, State Vehicle Code and permit requirements. Garbage
trucks operating for and registered to the disposal company which is contracted
by the city or any property owner, business or residence for disposal and/or
recycling services, provided that the vehicle is being operated within the
terms of its lawfully registered gross vehicle weight restrictions;
      (8)   Personally owned vehicles of a person who resides on a weight-
restricted roadway; provided, that the vehicle’s registered flat weight is no
more than 12,000 pounds, when traveling to or from his or her residence, and
provided that the vehicle operator uses the shortest maneuverable route on
weight-restricted roadway;
      (9)   Implements of husbandry, as defined in the State Vehicle Code, 625
ILCS 5/1-130, or other farm vehicles used in the course of farming land;
      (10)   Vehicles that have been issued an overweight vehicle permit by the
city’s Police Chief or designee, provided that the vehicle is operated in
strict conformity with the terms of such permit; and
      (11)   Truck routes as defined in
Chapter 73, Schedule III.
   (C)   Signposting. The vehicle weight restrictions set forth in this section
shall be designated by appropriate signage giving reasonable notice to
motorists of the applicable restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 15.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 COMPRESSION/RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE USE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be used or operated within the
city any compression/release engine brake on any vehicle for any reason.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, COMPRESSION/RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE is
defined as any mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to compressed air which
results in excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle, or
otherwise known as Jake-braking.
(Prior Code, § 15.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any public right-of-way for
the purpose of displaying it for sale.
(Prior Code, § 15.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in
any place designated by the City Council as a loading zone and marked as such,
or in any of the following designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday; and
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 15.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 15.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 TAXICAB STANDS; BUS STANDS.
   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area
designated by ordinance as a taxicab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus
shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
(Prior Code, § 15.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No vehicle without a current state license shall be allowed to be parked on
city streets, and the city police are authorized to tow away and place in
storage any vehicle found to violate this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 15.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle parked on any city street or municipal parking lot for seven
consecutive days without being moved shall be deemed abandoned and shall be
towed away and placed in storage, at the owner’s cost, by the city police.
(Prior Code, § 15.26) (Ord. 01-10-04, passed - -)
§ 70.12 STREET CLEANING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when the street is being cleaned or snow
removed. Signs indicating cleaning or snow removal shall be posted before the
work is done.
(Prior Code, § 15.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 OFF-STREET STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally. The following standards and regulations shall apply to the
storage of vehicles in parking lots and parking areas on a lot in a residential
zoning district.
      (1)   “Storage” defined. For the purpose of this division (A), the terms
STORAGE or STORED shall mean the parking of a vehicle for a continuous period
of longer than 72 hours.
      (2)   Surface. No motorized vehicle or unmotorized trailers shall be
stored on any lot except on a surface constructed with concrete, asphalt or
patio blocks. The width and length of the improved surface shall be at least
the same dimensions of the body of the vehicle or trailer. The only exception
to this rule shall apply to lots within a designated floodplain wherein the
owner has received written correspondence from the federal government to the
effect that a hard surface such as required herein is not permitted.
      (3)   Permanent location prohibited. No stored vehicle shall have its
wheels removed or be affixed to the ground so as to prevent its ready removal.
      (4)   Residential use prohibited. No vehicle shall be used for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes on any lot for more than ten days in any
given calendar year. Any time a vehicle is connected to any public utility,
there will be a presumption that such vehicle is being used for residential
purposes.
      (5)   Unlicensed and inoperable vehicles. No vehicle without current
license nor any vehicle incapable of being driven or used for the purpose or
use for which it was designed shall be stored in any parking lot or parking
area on any lot in a residential zoning district.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles. Outdoor storage of
recreational vehicles is permitted only to the extent that such vehicles are
stored in a safe and orderly manner in a compact and contiguous area not to
exceed 180 square feet located behind the sidewalk. No single recreational
vehicle shall exceed 180 square feet for storage. For the purpose of this
section, a boat upon a trailer shall be considered a single vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15.28)
   (B)   Enforcement procedure. Upon determining that a vehicle has been stored
in violation of this section, the Police Department, by and through its
personnel, or Code Enforcement Inspector, shall give the person, firm or
corporation owning, leasing or occupying the property notice by placing written
notice on the windshield of the improperly stored vehicle that the person, firm
or corporation shall have 24 hours from the date of notice to remove the
vehicle from the property. Thereafter, the Police Department may cause the
vehicle to be towed at the owner’s expense. In the event the owner fails to
comply with said notice, the owner shall be liable for penalties hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 15.30)
(Ord. 01-10-05, passed - -; Ord. 01-10-6, passed - -; Ord. 02-2-2, passed - -;
Ord. 03-1-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Administrative fees.
      (1)   In addition to any fees charged for the towing and storage of an
impounded vehicle, the city may impose an administrative fee not to exceed $500
related to its administrative and processing costs associated with the
investigation, arrest and detention of an offender, or the removal,
impoundment, storage and release of the vehicle. The administrative fee shall
be waived upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was stolen at the time the
vehicle was impounded.
      (2)   The administrative fee may be imposed and a motor vehicle may be
impounded upon probable cause that any of the following violations have
occurred:
         (a)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to 720 ILCS 5/36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012;
         (b)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,
an intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation
of 625 ILCS 5/11-501;
         (c)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act
(720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.);
         (d)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the State Controlled
Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.);
         (e)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 (Unlawful Use
of Weapons), 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5 (Reckless District of a Firearm) or 720 ILCS 5/
24-3.1 (Unlawful Possession of Firearms and Firearm Ammunition);
         (f)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate
a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except
that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the
suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to
comply with emission testing;
         (g)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.) or the State
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.);
         (h)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the period of expiration is
greater than one year;
         (i)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver’s license or permit, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, or
operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or
permit due to a person’s age;
         (j)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 5/6-303 or 5/11-501;
         (k)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS Article 16 (Theft
and Related Offenses) or Article 16A (Retail Theft); or
         (l)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.), when so provided by this code.
      (3)   The following shall apply to any fees imposed for administrative
and processing costs pursuant to division (B) below.
         (a)   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner. The registered owner shall be the record titleholder to a motor vehicle
as registered with the Secretary of State or any other applicable governmental
agency.
         (b)   The fees shall be in addition to: any other penalties that may
be assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and any towing or
storage fees; or both, charged by the towing company.
         (c)   The fees shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles.
         (d)   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the city.
         (e)   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and
paid to the person, firm or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
Costs for towing and storage of a motor vehicle shall be those approved by the
Chief of Police for all tow companies authorized to tow for the Police
Department.
   (B)   Administrative hearing. A hearing shall be provided pursuant to 625
ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4). The vehicle shall be released to the owner of record,
lessee or a lienholder of record upon payment of all administrative fees and
towing and storage fees.
   (C)   Administrative hearing requirements.
      (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in the state for a minimum of three
years and who is not an officer or employee of the city. The hearing officer
shall be designated by the City Administrator.
      (2)   The hearing officer shall have the power to administer oaths and to
secure the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant
books and papers via subpoena.
      (3)   The hearing shall be recorded and the technical/formal rules of
evidence shall not apply.
      (4)   Individuals appearing before the hearing officer shall have the
right to be represented by counsel at their own expense.
      (5)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment.
      (6)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the city.
      (7)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law, being
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
      (8)   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
   (D)   Notice of impoundment. The following provisions shall be observed
concerning notice of impoundment.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility authorized by the municipality.
      (2)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the city shall notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee or person identifying himself or
herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to be
in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative
hearing.
      (3)   The city shall provide notice that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner
or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the city a bond equal to
the administrative fee as provided by this code and pays for all towing and
storage charges.
   (E)   Notice of hearing. The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and
any lienholder of record shall be provided with a notice of hearing. The notice
shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party’s
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle
is impounded by the city; and
      (3)   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after
the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (F)   Abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicles. Vehicles not retrieved
from the towing or storage facility within 35 days after the administrative
officer issues a written decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.
   (G)   Enforcement. Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any
fine, penalty or administrative fee imposed under this chapter which remains
unpaid in whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking
review under division (J) below, may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (H)   Applicability of other laws. This section is in addition to and shall
not replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state or federal laws or any
ordinance that relates to the seizure or impoundment of motor vehicles, and any
fee provided for in this section shall be in addition to any and all penalties
that may be assessed or imposed by a court for any criminal charges. This
section shall not apply:
      (1)   If the motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time
of the violation;
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is subject to successful forfeiture
proceedings under 725 ILCS 150/1 et seq. (Drug Asset Forfeiture Procedure Act),
as amended; 720 ILCS 5/36-1 et seq. (Seizure and Forfeiture of Vessels,
Vehicles and Aircraft), as amended; or
      (3)   Other state or federal forfeiture laws.
   (I)   Administrative review. Any owner of record, lienholder or other person
with a legal interest in the motor vehicle, shall have the right to appeal the
decision of the hearing officer to the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court, pursuant to
the Administrative Review Act, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., as amended. Any
respondent seeking review of a final decision shall be required to reimburse
the city for the costs of preparing and certifying the record of proceedings.
Failure of the respondent to reimburse the city shall be grounds for the
dismissal of a complaint for administrative review pursuant to 735 ILCS 5/3-
109. In the event the reviewing court reverses the findings, decision and order
of the Administrative Law Judge, the city will reimburse the respondent for the
costs for preparing and certifying the record of proceedings. Any
administrative fee posted with the city to secure the release of a motor
vehicle prior to a hearing shall be held by the city until the hearing officer
issues a decision or, if there is judicial review of the hearing officer’s
decision, until a reviewing court issues a final decision.
   (J)   Administrative fee refund. A finding of “not guilty” following a trial
in the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court for the underlying violation wherein the
motor vehicle was impounded, shall entitle the owner of record to a full and
complete refund of any administrative fee imposed under this section. However,
the owner of record must request the refund in writing and shall include in the
request a certified disposition of “not guilty” following a trial from the 22nd
Circuit Court Clerk. An order of dismissal or a negotiated disposition on the
underlying charge(s) shall not result in a refund of the administrative fee.
(Prior Code, § 15.31) (Ord. 23-8-2, passed 8-28-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   All penalty provisions contained or referred to or incorporated
in §
70.01 are also adopted and incorporated, including, but not limited to, those
contained in the Unified Code of Corrections (730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.), as
Chapter 70.907-01 of the Marengo Municipal Code, (Marengo Municipal Code,
Chapter 70 pars. 1-100 et seq., 11-100 et seq., 12-100 et seq., 15-100 et seq.,
16-101 et seq. and 20.101 et seq.), with the exception of the fine penalties
listed for persons found guilty of violating Chapter 70, pars. 11-501(a)(1),
11-501(a)(2), 11-501(a)(3), 11-501(a)(4) and 6-303(a). Any person found guilty
of violating Chapter 70, pars. 11-501(a)(1), 11-501(a)(2), 11-501(a)(3) and 11-
501(a)(4) shall be fined not less than $1,250 nor more than $2,500 for each
offense. Any person found guilty of violating Chapter 70, par. 6-303(a) shall
be fined not less than $300 nor more than $2,500 for each offense. All other
penalties listed for violations of these offenses shall be applicable.
      (2)   The penalty provided by this division (B) applies to the amendment
of any section of this chapter adopted herein by reference whether or not such
penalty is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 15.01)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
70.03 may be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000.
(Prior Code, § 15.11)
   (D)   Operation or movement of any vehicle upon any street, roadway, highway
or bridge under the jurisdiction of the city in violation of §
70.04, or operation or movement of any vehicle in violation of the terms or
conditions of any permit issued by the city pursuant to §
70.04, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $300
for a first offense, not less than $300 nor more than $500 for a second
offense, and not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 for a third or subsequent
offense within any 12-month period. If a fine under §
70.04 is not paid or contested within ten days of the ticket being issued, then
the minimum penalty is double the amount of the original fine.
(Prior Code, § 15.14)
   (E)   Any person storing a vehicle in violation of §
70.13 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100 for each day that a
violation exists plus the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
fees, and, if applicable, towing and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 15.30)
(Ord. 01-7-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-10-6, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-8, passed - -)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking limitations/prohibitions
   
71.02   School parking areas
   
71.03   Parking after an ice storm or snowfall
   
71.04   Time limit parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING LIMITATIONS/PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Sign restrictions. No person shall park a vehicle at a prohibited
location or for a period of time longer than indicated upon signs posted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Prohibited. Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic, or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or a curb of a street;
         (b)   On or across any sidewalk or crosswalk;
         (c)   Within any intersection;
         (d)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (e)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (f)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
street;
         (g)   On any railroad tracks; or
         (h)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers;
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (4)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 15.04) (Ord. 01-8-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-10-04, passed - -; Ord.
03-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 04-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 08-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 13-
7-1, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SCHOOL PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking and traffic in parking areas of any and all schools for which
there is a contract between the school district and city for the regulation of
parking and traffic shall be subject to the regulations set forth in this
section. For the purpose of this section, the term PARKING AREAS shall mean the
area or areas of land near or contiguous to said schools and used as a means of
access to and egress from said schools and for the parking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle or cause any vehicle to stop or stand
in any designated safety zone or fire lane, nor shall any person park any
vehicle in any designated loading zone except as provided herein.
   (C)   No person shall park any vehicle or cause any vehicle to stop or stand
in any restricted parking area unless authorized by the School District Board
of Education. Parking in said restricted areas shall be limited to vehicles
registered with the school authorities, faculty or administration vehicles and
non-student vehicles on official school business.
   (D)   No person shall park or abandon any vehicle in a school parking area
during a snowstorm, flood, fire or other public emergency so as to constitute
an obstruction to traffic.
   (E)   The School District Board of Education shall erect and maintain, in
the school parking areas, signs posting speed limits and designating safety
zones, loading zones, fire lanes and restricted parking areas. It shall be
unlawful for any person to exceed said posted speed limits or to violate the
restrictions or prohibitions designated by said signs.
(Prior Code, § 15.05) (Ord. 02-2-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING AFTER AN ICE STORM OR SNOWFALL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked any
vehicle on a public street at any time after an ice storm or two inches or more
of snowfall, unless the city has completed its work to cover the street with
salt or sand and clear it of snow.
   (B)   The Police Department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to
remove and tow away or have removed and towed away, any car or other vehicle
illegally parked which prevents or obstructs snow removal from public streets.
   (C)   Cars or vehicles so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in
a pound designated by the Police Department and shall be restored to the owner
or operator of such vehicle upon the payment of all towing and storage fees.
(Prior Code, § 15.07) (Ord. 01-10-04, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between in any area
designated as a limited parking area and so marked, or as restricted by
ordinance or statute.
(Prior Code, § 15.24) (Ord. 02-2-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.02 may be punished by a fine not less than $25 nor more than $50. In
addition to said fine, any vehicle parked or abandoned in violation of §
71.02 may be removed and stored by the city authorities, and the owner or
operator of any vehicle parked or abandoned in violation of §
71.02 shall be liable for the payment of reasonable charges for the removal and
storage of said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15.05)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Snowmobiles
   
72.02   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles
§ 72.01 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Local regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
snowmobile in the city under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon any sidewalk in the city, except where the tree bank, shoulder
or unpaved right-of-way has a natural or hazardous obstruction to the extent of
blocking the passage of any snowmobile;
      (2)   At speeds in excess of ten mph;
      (3)   Upon any street, except to cross the right-of-way thereof, except
where the tree bank, shoulder or unpaved right-of-way has a natural or
hazardous obstruction to the extent of blocking the passage of any snowmobile;
      (4)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, recreational
areas and golf courses, whether public or private, without express written
permission to do so by the property owner or property authority; and
      (5)   In a manner that creates loud, unnecessary or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   (B)   Parking. It shall be unlawful to park any snowmobile on any sidewalk
or street within the city, or on the private property of any person, without
the express permission of the owner or occupant of any such private property.
   (C)   Unattended vehicles. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator to
leave or allow a snowmobile to be or remain unattended on public property while
the motor is running or with the keys for starting the vehicle left in the
ignition.
(Prior Code, § 15.13) (Ord. 01-3-5, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles is permitted only to the extent
that such vehicles are stored in a safe and orderly manner in a compact and
contiguous area not to exceed 180 square feet located behind the front building
setback line. For the purpose of this section, a boat upon a trailer shall be
considered a single vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 15.29) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets, alleys
      
II.   Snowmobile routes
      
III.   Truck routes
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   Traffic control signals
      
VI.   Yield intersections
      
VII.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS, ALLEYS.
   The following described streets are hereby designated as a one-way street or
one-way alley in the city for all vehicles other than postal service vehicles
and refuse/recycling/yard waste collection vehicles in the performance of their
regular duties.
 
Street                                                              Direction
Alley at the end of Dietz Street, running from Grant Street through Northbound
West Washington Street
Alley from West Prairie Street to West Washington Street            Southbound
Prairie Street, between Ann Street and Taylor Street                Eastbound
Washington Street, between Taylor Street and Ann Street             Westbound
 
(Prior Code, § 15.12) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SNOWMOBILE ROUTES.
   The following streets and roads are designated as routes of travel by
snowmobiles and provide access into and out of the city; these streets and
roads are not to be used for practice or amusement purposes, except to travel
between a residence and the nearest designated route for the purpose of driving
into or out of the city:
   (A)   Upon any portion of the city right-of-way within the 35-foot tree bank
on the south side of Railroad Street between its intersection with West Street
on the east and the city limits on the west; and
   (B)   Upon any portion of the city right-of-way within the eight-foot tree
bank on the west side of West Street between its intersection with Railroad
Street on the north through and including a line drawn parallel with the
Railroad Street right-of-way and located 350 feet south of the southerly line
of the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad.
(Prior Code, § 15.13) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following city roadways or roadway segments are designated as Class II
truck routes and shall comply with the regulations set forth for such in the
State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq. In addition, all commercial
vehicle traffic shall be restricted to local delivery and pickup only.
Street From To
Street                 From                To
Ann Street             West Gant Highway   West Prairie Street
East Street            East Grant Highway  136 North East Street
East Prairie Street    South State Street  North Taylor Street
East Washington Street South State Street  North Taylor Street
Greenlee Street        (Entirety)          Grace Street
Harmony Road           Route 23            Going west
Maple Street           East Grant Highway  Randall Court
Prairie Street         South State Street  Ann Street
Prospect Street        East Grant Highway  Telegraph Street
Railroad Street        Page Street         1,000 feet west of West Street
Sponable Street        West Prairie Street Union Pacific Railroad Way
Taylor Street          East Grant Highway  Railroad Street
West Street            Railroad Street     West Grant Highway
West Prairie Street    West Street         Sponable Street
West Washington Street South State Street  Ann Street
 
(Prior Code, § 15.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   The following speed limits shall be observed on the designated roadways
within the city:
Location Speed Limit
Location                                              Speed Limit
All alleys within the city                            5 mph
All posted school zones                               20 mph (school zone only)
All residential areas unless otherwise posted         25 mph
Anthony Road from the eastern city limits to the      55 mph
western city limits
Blissdale Road from the northern city limits to the   55 mph
southern city limits
Coon Creek Road from South Route 23 to the southern   55 mph
city limits
Deerpass Road                                         55 mph
Grange Road from South Route 23 to the western city   55 mph
limits
Grant Highway from the 900 block of East Grant        35 mph
Highway to the 19900 block of East Grant Highway
Grant Highway from the 900 block on East Grant        30 mph
Highway to the 21000 block on West Grant Highway
Grant Highway from the 19900 block east to the 19600
block, State Street from South Street to the 6500     45 mph
block
Grant Highway from the 21000 block west to the 22000  40 mph
block
Grant Highway from the 2100019600 block east to the   55 mph
eastern city limits
Grant Highway from the 22000 block to the 23000 block 50 mph
Grant Highway from the 23000 block to the western     55 mph
city limits
Harmony Road from the eastern city limits to the      55 mph
western city limits
Indian Oaks Park                                      10 mph
Jackson Street from Blissdale Road to the western     55 mph
city limits
Johnson Street from Grant Highway to the southern     55 mph
city limits
Maple Street from Bauman Drive to the 6500 block      45 mph
Maple Street from Grant Highway south to James Court  25 mph
Maple Street from James Court south to Bauman Street,
State Street from Forrest Street south to South       35 mph
Street
Maple Street from the 6500 block to the southern city 55 mph
limits
Meyer Road from Grant Highway to Pleasant Grove Road  40 mph
Pleasant Grove from South Route 23 to Meyer Road      45 mph
Prospect Street from Grant Highway north to the       25 mph
Chicago and Northwestern Railway railroad crossing
Prospect Street from Telegraph Street south to the    30 mph
Chicago and Northwestern Railway railroad crossing
Railroad Street from State Street to West Street      30 mph
State Street from Grant Highway north of Adams Street 20 mph (school zone only)
State Street from Grant Highway south to Forest       30 mph
Street
State Street from Telegraph Street north to the city
sanitary sewer treatment plant, Telegraph Street from 35 mph
State Street east to Grace Street
State Street from the city sanitary sewer treatment   45 mph
plant to the Kishwaukee River
State Street from the Kishwaukee River north to the   50 mph
city limits
State Street (South Route 23) from Pleasant Grove     45 mph
Road south to the 8000 block
State Street (South Route 23) from the 8000 block to  55 mph
the southern city limits
Telegraph Street from Grace Street east to the        45 mph
eastern city limits
Thorne Road from Grant Highway to Union Pacific       55 mph
Railroad
 
(Prior Code, § 15.15) (Ord. 04-5-4, passed - -; Ord. 24-10-1, passed 10-14-
2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-304, traffic control signals are hereby designated
at the following intersections in the city. Stop signs may be employed at such
times when said traffic control signals are not in working order:
   (A)   State Street and the Grant Highway intersection;
   (B)   State Street and the Telegraph Street intersection;
   (C)   Grant Highway and Prospect Street intersection; and
   (D)   South Route 23 and Pleasant Grove Road intersection.
(Prior Code, § 15.16)
SCHEDULE VI. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-304, yield signs are hereby designated at the
following intersections and all traffic circles within the city.
 
Traffic on                                        Yields at
Barbara Court, eastbound                          Dietz Street
Cascade Drive, Mallard Drive, Beaver Pond Drive   Traffic circle
Kent Street, westbound                            Dietz Street
Prospect Street, Beaver Pond Drive, Woodland Lane Traffic circle
South Route 23                                    Eastbound Interstate 90
South Route 23                                    Harmony Road
 
(Prior Code, § 15.18) (Ord. 24-10-1, passed 10-14-2024)
SCHEDULE VII. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-302, stop signs are hereby designated at the
following intersections in the city.
Traffic on Stops at
Traffic on                  Stops at
One-Way Stop
Adams Street                State Street
Adams Street                Taylor Street
Ann Street                  Railroad Street
Ann Street                  Van Buren Street
Artell Avenue               Stevenson Street
Artell Avenue               Van Buren Street
Autumn Court                Maple Street
Bauman Street               Maple Street
Briden Drive                Meyer Road
Briden Drive                Park Drive
Briden Drive                Seneca Trail
Brookside Court             Mildred Drive
Caroline Street             Locust Street
Caroline Street             Maple Street
Cascade Place               Cascade Drive
Center Drive                Deerpass Road
Center Drive                Telegraph Street
Chapel Street               Ann Street
Cherokee Trail              Seneca Trail
Cherokee Trail              Tioga Trail
Circle Court                State Street
Clark Street                Grant Highway
Cloverleaf Drive            Courtney Lane
Cloverleaf Drive            Mildred Drive
Coon Creek Road             South Route 23
Cottonwood Lane             Woodbine Lane
Courtney Lane               State Street
Damon Street (EB)           Page Street
Dietz Street                Grant Highway
Doral Drive                 Lura Lane
Doral Drive                 Maple Street
Doral Drive                 Spring Drive
Dunham Court                Georgeann Court
Dunham Court                Randall Court
East Street                 Grant Highway
East Street                 Telegraph Street
East Forest Street          Maple Street
8th Avenue                  North State Street
Eisenhower Drive            Briden Drive
Eisenhower Drive            Keppler Drive
Elm Street                  East Forest Street
Elm Street                  East Grant Highway
5th Avenue                  North State Street
1st Avenue                  North State Street
1st Avenue                  Taylor Street
Ford Street                 Railroad Street
Ford Street                 Van Buren Street
4th Avenue                  North State Street
Foxglove Lane               Buttonwood Court
Francis Street              Locust Street
Francis Street              Maple Street
Grace Court                 Spring Drive
Grace Court                 Van Buren Street
Grange Road                 South Route 23
Greenlee Street (EB)        Prospect Street
Greenlee Street (WB)        Prospect Street
Hale Street                 8th Avenue
Hale Street                 Railroad Street
Hayden Drive                Meyer Road
Hayden Drive                Seneca Trail
Hunters Path                Mary Court
Jackson Street              Blissdale Road
Jackson Street              Grace Street
Jackson Street              State Street
Jacquelyn Court             South Street
James Court                 Dunham Court
James Court                 Maple Street
Johnson Street              Briden Drive
Johnson Street              Grant Highway
Joy Court                   Courtney Lane
Kennedy Drive               Briden Drive
Keppler Drive               Park Drive
Kerim Court                 Spring Drive
Kishwaukee Street           5th Avenue
Kishwaukee Street           Stevenson Street
Kishwaukee Street           Telegraph Street
Kishwaukee Street           Van Buren Street
Linda Court                 Courtney Lane
Locust Street               Washington Street
Locust Street               East Washington Street
Lura Lane                   Spring Drive
LynnAnn Court               Spring Drive
Majic Way                   Spring Drive
Mallard Drive               Center Drive
Maple Street                East Grant Highway
Maplewood Drive             Courtney Lane
Mary Court                  Riley Drive
Meyer Road                  Grant Highway
Meyer Road                  Pleasant Grove Road
Mildred Drive/Courtney Lane Courtney Lane/Mildred Drive
Mohawk Trail                Seneca Trail
Mohawk Trail                Tioga Trail
Navajo Trail                Seneca Trail
Navajo Trail                Tioga Trail
Oak Manor Drive             State Street
Oak Manor Drive             West Forest Street
Page Street                 Prairie Street
Page Street                 8th Avenue
Page Street (SB)            Damon Street/Page Street
Park Drive                  West Grant Highway
Partridge Circle            Quail Lane
Pawnee Trail                Navajo Trail
Pawnee Trail                Seneca Trail
Quail Lane                  Center Drive
Quail Lane                  Partridge Circle
Rainbow Drive               Telegraph Street
Randall Court               Maple Street
Ridge Drive                 Lura Lane
Ridge Drive                 Spring Drive
Riley Drive                 Randall Court
Rowland Court               Grant Highway
Royal Oak Drive             Oak Manor Drive
Ruth Court                  Ridge Drive
Sara Lane                   Spring Drive
2nd Avenue                  North State Street
7th Avenue                  East Street
7th Avenue                  North State Street
7th Circle                  East Street
7th Circle                  8th Avenue
6th Avenue                  North State Street
South Street                Dietz Street
South Street                State Street
South Ann Street            West Forest Street
South Ann Street            West Prairie Street
South Ford Street           Grant Highway
South Page Street           East Forest Street
Spring Drive                Doral Drive (NB)
Stonegate Drive             Courtney Lane
Sullivan Street             Prairie Street
Sullivan Street             Washington Street
Taylor Street               East Grant Highway
Taylor Street               8th Avenue
3rd Avenue                  Kishwaukee Street
3rd Avenue                  North State Street
Thornapple Lane             Maplewood Lane
Thornapple Lane             Stonegate Drive
Thorne Road                 Grant Highway
Village Circle              Center Drive
Walnut Lane                 Kishwaukee Street
West Street                 Grant Highway
West Street                 Railroad Street
West Forest Street          Dietz Street
West Forest Street          Park Drive
West Forest Street (WB)     Stanford Street
West Prairie Street         State Street
West Prairie Street         West Street
West Washington Street      State Street
West Washington Street      West Street
Whitetail Drive             Beaver Pond Drive
Willow Drive                Van Buren Street
Woodbine Lane (east/west)   Foxglove Court
Two-Way Stop
Anthony Road                South Route 23
Chapel Street               Dietz Street
Clark Street                East Washington Street
East Van Buren Street       East Street
East Van Buren Street       Page Street
East Van Buren Street       Taylor Street
1st Avenue                  East Street
1st Avenue                  Kishwaukee Street
1st Avenue                  Page Street
Ford Street                 West Prairie Street
Forest Street               South State Street
4th Avenue                  East Street
4th Avenue                  Page Street
4th Avenue                  Taylor Street
Foxglove Court              Woodbine Lane
Hale Street                 Adams Street
Hale Street                 Jackson Street
Hale Street                 Telegraph Street
Hale Street                 Van Buren Street
Locust Street               East Grant Highway
Maplewood Lane              Courtney Lane
Mildred Drive               Mary Court
Mildred Drive               Meadow Lane
Navajo Trail                Pawnee Trail
Page Street                 Jackson Street
Page Street                 Telegraph Street
Prospect Street             Telegraph Street
Railroad Street             State Street
Railroad Street             Taylor Street
Randall Court               Mildred Drive
7th Avenue                  Hale Street
7th Avenue                  Page Street
7th Avenue                  Taylor Street
6th Avenue                  East Street
6th Avenue                  Hale Street
6th Avenue                  Page Street
6th Avenue                  Taylor Street
South Ann Street            Grant Highway
South Page Street           Grant Highway
Taylor Street               Telegraph Street
3rd Avenue                  East Street
3rd Avenue                  Hale Street
3rd Avenue                  Page Street
3rd Avenue                  Taylor Street
Walnut Lane                 Cottonwood Lane
Three-Way Stop
Bauman Street               Meadow Lane
Cottonwood Lane             Woodland Lane
East Street                 8th Avenue
Mildred Drive               Courtney Drive
Sponable Street             West Washington Street
Washington Street           Taylor Street
Woodland Lane               Cottonwood Lane
Four-Way Stop
Chestnut Lane               Cottonwood Lane
Cottonwood Lane             Buttonwood Court
Courtney Drive              Spring Drive
East Street                 5th Avenue
East Street                 Jackson Street
East Street                 2nd Avenue
East Prairie Street         Taylor Street
East Prairie Street         East Street
East Washington Street      East Street
5th Avenue                  East Street
5th Avenue                  Hale Street
5th Avenue                  North Taylor Street
5th Avenue                  Page Street
5th Avenue                  Taylor Street
4th Avenue                  Kishwaukee Street
Hale Street                 5th Avenue
Hale Street                 2nd Avenue
Jackson Street              East Street
Jackson Street              Taylor Street
Kishwaukee Street           4th Avenue
Kishwaukee Street           2nd Avenue
Page Street                 5th Avenue
Page Street                 2nd Avenue
Riley Drive                 Georgeann Court
2nd Avenue                  East Street
2nd Avenue                  Hale Street
2nd Avenue                  Kishwaukee Street
2nd Avenue                  Page Street
2nd Avenue                  Taylor Street
South Ann Street            West Washington Street
South Page Street           East Washington Street
South Sponable Street       West Prairie Street
Taylor Street               East Prairie Street
Taylor Street               5th Avenue
Taylor Street               Jackson Street
Taylor Street               2nd Avenue
Walnut Lane                 Cottonwood Lane
West Prairie Street         Sponable Street
West Washington Street      Ford Street
West Washington Street      South Ann Street
Whitetail Drive             Cascade Drive
 
(Prior Code, § 15.19) (Ord. 01-6-4, passed - -; Ord. 04-8-2, passed - -; Ord.
08-9-2, passed - -; Ord. 12-9-1, passed - -; Ord. 24-10-1, passed 10-14-2024;
Ord. 26-5-2, passed 5-26-2026)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parallel and diagonal parking
   
II.   Parking limitations/prohibitions
   
III.   Restricted parking areas
   
IV.   Parking for handicapped or disabled persons
   
V.   Restricted access
SCHEDULE I. PARALLEL AND DIAGONAL PARKING.
   (A)   Parallel parking only. Parallel parking shall only be permitted in the
designated area along the eastbound portion of Grant Highway and adjacent to
the United States Post Office.
   (B)   Diagonal parking only. Diagonal parking shall only be permitted on the
east side of State Route 23 from north of Washington Street to 150 feet north
of Prairie Street.
(Prior Code, § 15.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING LIMITATIONS/PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Street parking restrictions.
      (1)   Parking on any city street within the Central Business District, as
depicted on the current city zoning map, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. is prohibited. Parking on any street outside of the Central Business
District between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. is prohibited.
      (2)   Exception: Two parallel parking spaces shall hereby be established
at the northwest corner of West Prairie Street and Ford Street. The zone shall
commence at the northerly right-of-way of West Prairie Street on the east side
of North Ford Street directly in front of 117 and 117-1/2 Ford Street.
   (B)   Municipal parking lot restrictions.
      (1)   Parking in city owned municipal parking lots is allowed, 24 hours a
day (with a permit required between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.) as
follows:
         (a)   In the one westernmost row of parking spaces in Municipal
Parking Lot #1 along South Ann Street;
         (b)   In the entire easternmost row of parking spaces in Municipal
Parking Lot #3, 115 East Washington Street; and
         (c)   In the northern most row of Parking Lot #2 (located north of the
City Police Department and City Hall).
      (2)   Permit parking is limited to vehicle owners living in apartments
with no parking, as evidenced by their lease agreement. A limit of two permits,
per apartment, may be obtained, at no cost, from the City Hall. The following
regulations shall also apply to Municipal Parking Lot #2.
         (a)   Vehicles exceeding 10,000 pounds shall not be parked for more
than two hours and only for the purpose of delivery, loading or unloading. No
tractor-trailer shall be separated from the tractor and parked with the small
parking wheels lowered. These restrictions shall not apply to any emergency
vehicle, including those defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-105.
         (b)   Speed shall be restricted to 15 mph.
      (3)   Without a special permit, it shall be unlawful for any person to
congregate or gather with others or to remain in areas designated as municipal
parking lots for purposes other than those reasonably related to access to and
from vehicles lawfully parked in said municipal parking lots.
   (C)   Private property. As provided herein, no parking shall be allowed on
private property without the consent of the owner or in the following
locations.
Street/Subdivision Side(s) From
Street/Subdivision        Side(s)          From
                                           Area in front of the accessibility
Ann Street, South         West             ramp leading to the sidewalk in
                                           front of the First Presbyterian
                                           Church
Briden Drive              All
                                           Except between Jackson Street and
East Street               East, West       East Van Buren Street where posted
                                           for Zion Lutheran Church
                                           Commencing at the northerly ROW of
Ford Street               West             West Prairie Street on the west side
                                           of Ford Street
Ford Street (south)       West             Grant Highway to West Washington
                                           Street
                                           From the (102 block of Franks Road)
                                           (North) to the cul-de-sac and from
Franks Road               East, West       the cul-de-sac to the 102 block of
                                           Franks Road (South) (1,448.3 feet,
                                           0.3 miles)**
Grant Highway (East)      North, South     Within the city except where parking
                                           spaces are provided
Grant Highway (West)      North, South     From State Street to the city limits
Indian Trail Subdivision* All
                                           In front of the Zion Lutheran Church
                                           doors, 27 feet in length, the
Jackson Street            North            midpoint being immediately east of
                                           the center of the church doors
                                           fronting on Jackson Street
Johnson Street            West             400 block only
                                           From Franks Road to the curve (200
Lindow Lane               North, South     block) (East) and from the curve
                                           (200 block) (West) to Franks Road
                                           (749.6 feet)**
Maple Street              East             Between Grant Highway and Francis
                                           Street
O’Connell Drive         All
Page Street               All              East Prairie Street, East Grant
                                           Highway
Park Drive                East             Entire length
Prairie Street, East      All              Taylor Street, Page Street
Prairie Street, East      North            Taylor Street to the point where
                                           curb and gutter end
Prairie Street, West      North            Ann Street to West Street
                                           Commencing at the northerly ROW of
                                           West Prairie Street on the west side
Prairie Street, West      Northwest corner of North State Street and extending
                                           33 feet north, being 12 feet in
                                           width as measured from the curb
                                           Commencing at the southerly ROW of
                                           West Prairie Street on the west side
Prairie Street, West      Southwest corner of South State Street and extending
                                           33 feet south, being 12 feet in
                                           width as measured from the curb
Prospect Street                            Entire length
State Street, North       East, West       Railroad tracks to northern city
                                           limits
State Street, South       East, West       Grant Highway to southern city
                                           limits
Telegraph Street          North, South     From State Street east to the city
                                           limits
Washington Street, East                    6 parking spaces at intersection of
                                           Taylor Street
                                           Area in front of the accessibility
Washington Street, East                    ramp to the sidewalk in front of the
                                           Marengo United Methodist Church
Washington Street, East   All              Taylor Street, Page Street
Washington Street, East   North            Taylor Street to Prospect Street
Washington Street, West   South            Ann Street to West Street
Notes to Table:
* Except in designated parking spaces.
** School days between 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. Excepted from this parking
restriction are construction personnel vehicles and construction equipment.
This parking restriction to be reviewed on an annual basis.
 
(Prior Code, § 15.04) (Ord. 01-8-1, passed - -; Ord. 01-10-04, passed - -; Ord.
03-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 04-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 08-1-2, passed - -; Ord. 13-
7-1, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-8, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Ann Street. Except on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, parking is
prohibited between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in the following
restricted parking zone: 44 feet in length on the west side of Ann Street in
the vicinity of the 180-foot sidewalk servicing the First Presbyterian Church
so as to allow three parking places in the area north of the no-parking zone
and south of the sidewalk on West Washington Street and to allow six parking
places south of the no-parking zone and north of Grant Highway, all on the west
side of Ann Street.
   (B)   Police vehicles. Directly behind the Police Department.
   (C)   Truck parking. Except for Class D vehicles equipped with only front
and rear single-wheel single axles, any vehicle displaying an State Class D, F,
H. J, K, N, P, R, S, T, V, X or Z license registration plate, or an equivalent
if registered in another state or country, shall be prohibited from parking in
any residential zoning area except for the purposes of loading or unloading the
vehicle.
   (D)   Limited time parking. Thirty-minute parking shall only be permitted in
the three parking spaces on the north side of Washington Street, from the
leading dock easement access road east of the parking lot entrance at 131 East
Prairie Street, being approximately 68 feet.
   (E)   Two-hour parking. Unless otherwise posted, two-hour parking shall be
permitted in the Central Business District, as defined in Title I.
   (F)   One parking space on the south side of East Prairie Street immediately
west of the alley in front of 113 East Prairie Street as a 15-minute parking
space.
(Prior Code, § 15.06) (Ord. 02-2-2, passed - -; Ord. 14-3-2, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED OR DISABLED PERSONS.
   The parking of any motor vehicle not bearing registration plates or decals
issued to a person with disabilities, as defined in the Motor Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., is prohibited in the following locations.
Street Location Penalty
Street     Location                                                                Penalty
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
East       On the west side, contiguous to the no-parking area, two parking spaces for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Street     as posted                                                               fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
Jackson    On the north side, contiguous to the no-parking area, two parking       for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Street     spaces as posted                                                        fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
Municipal                                                                          Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
Parking    Two parking spaces as posted                                            for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Lot #1                                                                             fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
Municipal                                                                          Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
Parking    One parking space as posted                                             for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Lot #2                                                                             fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
South Ann  On the east side, the fourth parking space south of West Prairie Street for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Street                                                                             fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
South Ann  On the west side, south of its intersection with Washington Street,     for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Street     contiguous with the “No Parking Area,” two parking spaces as posted fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
Washington On its south side, west of its intersection with Taylor Street,         for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
Street     contiguous with the “No Parking Area,” two parking spaces as posted fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
                                                                                   Fine of not less than $250 for each offense, and shall be responsible
Any other parking space properly posted by the city                                for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’
                                                                                   fees incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be
                                                                                   considered a separate offense
 
(Prior Code, § 15.08) (Ord. 04-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   Vehicular traffic within the city is restricted as follows:
   (A)   Southbound vehicular traffic on Ford Street shall only access the
westbound land of Grant Highway (U.S. Route 20); and
   (B)   Northbound vehicular traffic on Page Street shall only access the
eastbound land of Grant Highway (U.S. Route 20).
(Prior Code, § 15.09) (Ord. 06-3-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
      
91.   CEMETERY
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Protection of park property
   
90.03   Vehicles, operation
   
90.04   Motorized vehicles
   
90.05   Speed limit
   
90.06   Parking
   
90.07   Firearms, weapons and fireworks
   
90.08   Alcoholic beverages
   
90.09   Advertising and signs
   
90.10   Use of park area
   
90.11   Fires
   
90.12   Group activity
   
90.13   Swimming
   
90.14   Operating policy
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. All recreational areas owned and/or operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 8.01)
§ 90.02 PROTECTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   Damage to property. No person shall mark, deface, injure, destroy,
damage, tamper with or remove any park property, facilities or equipment,
whatsoever, either real or personal.
   (B)   Sanitation. No person shall throw, pour or in any other manner
discharge any substance or chemicals, whether liquid or solid, upon the water,
grounds or property of the park which may be injurious to persons or park
property.
   (C)   Refuse.
      (1)   No person shall bring in, have brought in or put into any park, any
rubbish, refuse, garbage or other such material. Any refuse and rubbish
generated from use of any park shall be deposited in receptacles provided in
the park.
      (2)   Where no such receptacles are provided, all such rubbish or waste
shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence,
and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (D)   Trees and vegetation. No person shall damage, destroy, remove or climb
upon, any tree or other vegetation located in any park or recreation area.
   (E)   Animals. No person shall bring any animal into any beach, baseball or
soccer field or marked perimeters of tot lots areas, whether on a leash or
being ridden, except blind or other physically challenged persons being led or
assisted by a guide dog. Animals on leashes will be allowed in all other city-
owned parks as long as the owner has appropriate waste collection equipment and
subsequently picks up any droppings eliminated by his or her animal.
   (F)   Golf. No person shall hit any golf balls in any baseball or soccer
field at any time.
(Prior Code, § 8.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 VEHICLES, OPERATION.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle other than on roadways within
city-controlled park lands except that the Superintendent of Public Works or
the Chief of Police may grant special permission to individuals to operate
vehicles on areas other than roadways.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 MOTORIZED VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile or off-road vehicle within any parks
controlled by the city except that the Superintendent of Public Works or the
Chief of Police may grant special permission for a snowmobile to be operated on
city-controlled park land.
(Prior Code, § 8.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall exceed a speed of ten mph unless it is otherwise posted on
any roadway or traffic way within any city controlled park.
(Prior Code, § 8.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PARKING.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle in any prohibited area which is posted
with signs, or park any vehicle in any area for the purpose of repair, except
those immediate repairs necessary to remove the vehicle from the area.
(Prior Code, § 8.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Firearms, weapons. No person, other than authorized police officers,
shall display or use on city-controlled park lands, except as authorized by the
Chief of Police, any gun, including a shotgun, rifle, pistol, revolver, air or
BB-gun or other weapon, including a slingshot, bow and arrow, switchblade knife
with spring-loaded blade, throwing knife, tomahawk or throwing axe or any
martial arts devices.
   (B)   Fireworks. No person, except authorized personnel, shall bring, carry
or use, in any way, any fireworks or other explosive substance of any kind in
any city-controlled park.
(Prior Code, § 8.07) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall consume or possess any alcoholic beverages on park lands,
with the following exceptions.
   (A)   The City Council may grant a daily exception permit to any
organization authorizing the dispensing of beer and/or wine at any group picnic
or similar function authorized in any park.
   (B)   Such function must be open to the public and be held during hours that
would not inhibit the use of the park by the general public.
   (C)   Before the permit is issued, the permittee must file a certificate of
insurance naming the city as an additional named insured.
   (D)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, all requirements of
Chapter 115 relating to alcoholic beverages shall apply to permits granted
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 ADVERTISING AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Advertising. No person shall announce, advertise or call to the
public’s attention in any way, any article or service for sale or hire.
   (B)   Signs. No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign,
placard, advertisement or inscription whatever on any park land or highway or
road adjacent to any such park land, except as approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.09) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 USE OF PARK AREA.
   (A)   Regulated. No person in a park shall picnic, lunch or camp in a place
other than that designated for such purpose. Attendants shall have the
authority to regulate activities in park areas whenever necessary to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of all
visitors.
   (B)   Non-exclusive use. No person shall use any portion of the picnic areas
or of any of the buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding
picnics to the exclusion of other person, nor shall any person use such area
and facilities for an unreasonable length of time if the facilities are
crowded, unless a park use permit is granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 FIRES.
   No person shall build a fire in any place other than a fireplace or grill
affixed to the property by the city, or any portable grill constructed of a
suitable fireproof substance, or in any other area designated by the city. No
persons shall leave a picnic area before their fire is completely extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 8.11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 GROUP ACTIVITY.
   Any group, association or organization desiring to use the park facilities
for a particular purpose must first obtain a permit from the Administrator. A
permit will be issued if it appears that the group, association or organization
will not interfere with the general use of the park by the individual members
of the public and if the group, association or organization meets all other
conditions contained in the application. The Administrator may require an
indemnity bond to protect the city from any liability of any kind or character
and to protect the city property from damage.
(Prior Code, § 8.12)
§ 90.13 SWIMMING.
   No person shall swim or wade in any stream, creek, lake or pond, located in
any park, unless such area is expressly reserved for such activity and clearly
posted as such.
(Prior Code, § 8.13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 OPERATING POLICY.
   (A)   Hours. City parks shall be open daily to the public during the hours
from dawn to dusk. It shall be unlawful for any person other than city
personnel conducting city business therein to occupy or be present in the park
during any hours in which the park is not open to the public, except as
approved by the City Council upon application for a park use permit provided
for in §
90.09.
   (B)   Closing parks. Any section or part of a park may be closed to the
public by the Mayor at any time and for any interval of time, either
temporarily or at regular or stated intervals.
(Prior Code, § 8.14) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §§
90.02 through
90.06 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any other section of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   The violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance to be abated in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 8.15)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERY
Section
   
91.01   City Cemetery established
   
91.02   Cemetery Board of Managers
§ 91.01 CITY CEMETERY ESTABLISHED.
   The cemetery, as bounded on the north by Jackson Street, on the south by the
existing railroad tracks and East Prairie Street and on the east by East Grace
Street, is established as the City Cemetery. The care, cost and supervision of
the City Cemetery, including all physical and financial matters, shall be the
responsibility of the City Council and its designees, who shall direct a
Cemetery Board of Managers to carry out the city’s objectives. The city shall
have charge and control of the City Cemetery and direct the Cemetery Board of
Managers to carry out the city’s objectives in that regard.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 91.02 CEMETERY BOARD OF MANAGERS.
   (A)   Cemetery Board of Managers created
      (1)   The Cemetery Board of Managers is hereby created, consisting of the
three existing members, serving two-year terms, each appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Mayor shall designate the
Cemetery Board of Managers Chair. Members of the Cemetery Board of Managers
shall select one of its members who shall keep the records in compliance with
the State Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq. Each member shall serve
a term of two years with compensation set by the City Council from time to
time. Any member may be removed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
City Council.
      (2)   All revenue, contributions, bequests, legacies and personal
property received by the cemetery staff or Board of Managers shall be turned
over to the City Finance Director who shall account for all received.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Cemetery Board of Managers.
      (1)   Meetings. The Cemetery Board of Managers shall meet at such times
as it may determine necessary to carry out the city’s objectives and shall
report to the Mayor and City Council no less than annually. Such meetings shall
be pursuant to the Open Meetings Act.
      (2)   Receipts. All funds received relating to the operation of the
cemetery shall be turned over to the city for deposit into the Cemetery Fund.
The Cemetery Fund shall be used for the operation of the cemetery.
      (3)   Operation of cemetery. The Cemetery Board of Managers shall take
direction from the Mayor and City Council and carry out the following:
operation, maintenance, management and control the cemetery, including lot
sales and services; establishment of rules for the conduct of the cemetery;
determining the cost of lots and services; employment of such persons necessary
for said operation and maintenance of the cemetery; and formulating a budget
for the cemetery for City Council approval. Unless authorized by the City
Council, the Cemetery Board of Managers shall budget to expend funds from the
Cemetery Fund. All agreements, contracts and other obligations relating to the
cemetery shall be entered into by the city after approval.
   (D)   Compensation. The Chairperson and members of the Commission shall
receive, as compensation, $50 and $30, respectively, for each attended
Commission meeting.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Ord. 21-7-3, passed - -; Ord. 24-4-3, passed - -; Ord.
24-4-4, passed - -)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Public nuisances prohibited
   
92.03   Public nuisances defined
   
92.04   Abatement of public nuisances
   
92.05   Cost of abatement
   
92.06   Abandoned and derelict motor vehicles
   
92.07   Boats, trailers and recreational vehicles
   
92.08   Noxious plants, weeds, bushes, trees and grass
   
92.09   Open burning
   
92.10   False alarms
   
92.11   Fire District Rapid Entry Key System
   
92.12   No smoking
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A city-authorized container for the
collection and storage of rubbish, waste, refuse, litter, garbage or other
matter.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Any discarded, used or consumed substance or waste.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste,
newspapers, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging, construction material, motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass
of any dead animal, any nauseous or offense matter of any kind, any object
likely to injure a person or create a traffic hazard, potentially infectious
medical waste as identified by characteristics or listing as hazardous under §
3001 of the Resource and Recovery Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921 et seq.,
or pursuant to the State Pollution Control Board, or anything else of an
unsightly or unsanitary nature which has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise
improperly disposed of, including any material which, if thrown or deposited
improperly, may tend to create a danger to the public health, safety and
welfare.
   PARK. A park reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All organic and non-organic solid waste (except body waste),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
vehicles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, metal
cans, yard clippings, leaves, tree stumps, dirt, wood, glass, bedding, crockery
and similar materials.
   TRASH. Discarded, unwanted or worthless materials or objects.
(Prior Code, § 12.01)
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the city or within the police jurisdiction of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this chapter, a PUBLIC NUISANCE is a
thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property which shall continue for
such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose
or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way; and/or
      (5)   Litter in public and private places.
   (B)   Public nuisances affecting health. The following acts, omissions,
places and things hereby specifically declared to be public health nuisances,
but shall not be construed to exclude other health nuisances coming within the
definition in division (A) above:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animals, birds or fowl not buried or otherwise
disposed of in a sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, abandoned vehicles or
machinery, scrap metal, discarded appliances or any material in which flies,
mosquitoes, disease carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed, or which
may constitute a fire hazard;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or other insects can
multiply;
      (5)   Garbage cans which are not fly-tight;
      (6)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash or industrial dust within the city limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or
cause substantial injury to property;
      (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, creamery or industrial wastes or other substances;
      (8)   Any use of property, substances or things within the city emitting
or causing any foul, offensive noisome, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable
odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of
any appreciable number of persons within the city;
      (9)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public
use;
      (10)   Any barn, stable or shed used for keeping animals;
      (11)   Any obstruction in or across any water course, drainage ditch or
ravine;
      (12)   Any open burning contrary to city ordinance;
      (13)   The deposit of garbage, rubbish or any offensive substance on any
street, sidewalk or public place or on any private property, except as may be
permitted by ordinance; and
      (14)   Any noxious weed on private property, as defined by 505 ILCS 100/
1 et seq.
   (C)   Public nuisances offending morals and decency. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby specifically declared to be
public nuisances offending public morals and decency, but such enumeration
shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances offending public morals and
decency coming within the definition in division (A) above:
      (1)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame and
buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of prostitution or
promiscuous sexual intercourse;
       (2)   All gambling devices if any kind except as authorized by §
115.52;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored, breed, bottled, manufactured or rectified without
a permit or license as provided for by this code;
      (4)   Any place or premises within the city where ordinances or state
laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals or welfare are openly,
continuously, repeatedly and intentionally violated; and
      (5)   Any person throwing, tossing, discarding or depositing litter in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place within the city except in
public trash receptacles, authorized private receptacles for collection or in
an official city disposal facility.
   (D)   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions and things are hereby declared to be public
nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such enumeration shall not be
construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or safety coming
within the provisions of division (A) above:
      (1)   All building erected, repaired or altered in violation of the
provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to materials and manner of
construction of building and structures;
      (2)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings or devices which purport
to be or may be mistaken as official traffic control devices placed or
maintained upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing;
      (3)   All trees, hedges or other obstructions which prevent persons
driving vehicles on public streets alleys or highways from obtaining a clear
view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk;
      (4)   All limbs of trees which project over a public sidewalk less than
eight feet above the surface thereof or less than ten feet above the surface of
a public street;
      (5)   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by the laws of
the state and ordinances of the city;
      (6)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated or out of repair as
to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human use;
      (7)   All wires over streets, alleys or public grounds which are strung
less than 15 feet above the surface of the street or ground;
      (8)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and
all excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of
the city or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept
or maintained for an unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has
been accomplished;
      (9)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations or unused basements
freely accessible from any public street, alley or sidewalk;
      (10)   All abandoned appliances;
      (11)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street, alley or sidewalk which causes
large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the
streets or sidewalks;
      (12)   Any advertisements or signs affixed to any building, wall, fence,
sidewalk, street or other private or public property without permission of the
owner thereof;
      (13)   Any sign, marquee or awning which is in an unsafe condition, or
which overhangs any roadway, or which overhangs any sidewalk less than eight
feet above the sidewalk surface;
      (14)   Any condition or practice constituting a fire hazard;
      (15)   Any nuisance so defined by the state compiled statutes;
      (16)   All unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other
automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other
vehicles, machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal property of any
kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, within the corporate limits of this city;
      (17)   All unsheltered storage of unlicensed automobiles for a period of
ten days or more within the corporate limits of the city; and
      (18)   All signs advertising garage sales, yard sales or other similar
sales other than those located on the property on which the sale is being
conducted.
(Prior Code, § 12.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Inspection of premises.
      (1)   Whenever complaint is made to the Mayor that a public nuisance
exists, or has existed, within the city, the Mayor shall promptly notify the
Chief of Police, or some other city official whom the Mayor shall designate,
who shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall
make a written report of his or her findings to the Mayor.
      (2)   Whenever practicable, the inspecting officer shall cause
photographs to be made of the premises and shall file the same in the office of
the Administrator.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner. If the inspecting officer determines that a public
nuisance exists on private property and that there is great and immediate
danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the Mayor may
direct the Chief of Police, Code Enforcement Officer or a deputy Sheriff, to
serve a notice on the owner, or, if the owner cannot be found, on the occupant
or person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance and to post a copy
of the notice on the premises. Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant or
persons causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or remove
such nuisance within 24 hours.
      (2)   Abatement by city. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Chief of Police, the Coordinator of Public Works or some other city
official whom the Mayor shall designate, may cause the abatement or removal of
such public nuisance, or person causing, permitting or maintaining such
nuisance to abate or remove such nuisance within 24 hours.
   (C)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer determines that a
public nuisance exists on private premises but the nature of such nuisance is
not an immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency,
he or she shall file a written report of his or her findings with the Mayor,
who shall cause an action to abate such nuisance to be commenced in the name of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 12.04)
§ 92.05 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to the penalty imposed by this code for the erection,
contrivance, creation, continuance or maintenance of the public nuisance, the
cost of abating a public nuisance by the city shall be collected as a debt from
the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance,
and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, such cost
shall be assessed against the real estate as other special taxes.
(Prior Code, § 12.05)
§ 92.06 ABANDONED AND DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Legislative findings and determinations. The City Council, in keeping
with the policy of the State General Assembly as found in § 5/4-301 of the
State Vehicle Code (ILCS Chapter 625), finds and determines that abandoned and
derelict vehicles: constitute a safety hazard and a public nuisance; are
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the general public by
harboring disease, providing breeding places for vermin, inviting plundering,
creating fire hazards and presenting physical dangers to children and others;
produce scenic blights which degrade the environment and adversely affect land
values and the proper maintenance and continuing development of the state and
all if its subdivisions; represent a resource out of place and an energy loss
to the state economy and require state and local governmental attention, in
conjunction with any federal governmental attention, in order to assure the
expeditious removal and recycling of these abandoned and derelict vehicles.
   (B)   Abandonment of vehicles or retention of derelict vehicles prohibited.
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or any part thereof or the retention of a
derelict vehicle anywhere in the city, in view of the general public, is
unlawful except on the property of the owner in a completely enclosed permanent
building or structure. Removal of the abandoned or derelict vehicle, or any
part thereof, may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police after
expiration of seven days from the date of violation.
   (C)   Abandonment of motor vehicle; presumption. The person to whom last was
issued the certificate of title to the vehicle by the Secretary of State is
presumed to be the person to have abandoned that vehicle but such presumption
may be rebutted.
   (D)   Retention of derelict vehicle on private property; presumption. The
person who owns the property on which the derelict vehicle is retained or who
occupies the property on which the derelict vehicle is retained, or both, is
presumed to be the person responsible for disposing of the vehicle in a safe
and timely manner.
   (E)   Notice to police.
      (1)   When an abandoned, derelict, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle comes into the temporary possession of custody of a
person in this state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall
immediately notify the Police Department when the vehicle is within the
corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle.
      (3)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner, or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided by this section.
   (F)   Removal of vehicles.
      (1)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a public
right-of-way in the city ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may
be authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
       (2)   When an abandoned, derelict, unattended, wrecked, burned or
partially dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic
hazard because of its position in relation to the highway, a towing service may
be authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
      (3)   When a vehicle is removed from either public or private property,
as authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
   (G)   Records of vehicle removed. When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is
authorized to be towed away, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a
record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of the manufacture,
manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle
identification number and license plate year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow.
   (H)   Search for owner.
      (1)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle records of the state to be searched by a directed communication to the
Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
      (2)   The Police Department shall cause the stolen vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information.
   (I)   Notice to State Police. When the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot
be identified from the registration files of this state or from the
registration files of a foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department
shall notify the State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The
information obtained by the State Police will be immediately forwarded to the
law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle for notification of owner.
   (J)   Reclaiming vehicles.
      (1)   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public
sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under
this section until all towing and storage charges and fines have been paid.
    (K)   Sale of vehicle.
      (1)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded.
      (3)   At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall
cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail
to the registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
      (4)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
   (L)   Older vehicles.
      (1)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age, or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
section, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this section without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this section, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a
determination of disposition, and an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (3)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
      (4)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle
is excluded from this section.
   (M)   Records. When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the
Police Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally
entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or other wise
disposed of as provided in this section, a record of the transaction shall be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
    (N)   Disposition of sale proceeds. When a vehicle located within the
corporate limits of the city is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of
Police and disposed of as set forth in this section, the proceeds of the public
sale or disposition after the deduction of towing, storage and processing
charges shall be deposited in the City Treasury.
   (O)   Liability of officers. Any police officer, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages or
his or her legal representatives, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed
and sold or disposed of as provided by this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 BOATS, TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles is permitted only to the extent
that such vehicles are stored in a safe and orderly manner in a compact and
contiguous area not to exceed 180 square feet located behind the front yard
building setback line. For the purpose of this section, a boat upon a trailer
shall be considered a single vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 NOXIOUS PLANTS, WEEDS, BUSHES, TREES AND GRASS.
   (A)   Nuisance declared. Any weeds such as or known as jimson, burdock,
ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds of like kind, and plants or bushes
of the species of tall, common or European Barberry, otherwise known as
Barberis Vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties, found growing in any place
or location within the corporate limits of the city, are declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit any such weeds
or plants to grow or remain in any place or location within the corporate
limits of the city to a height in excess of eight inches. It is also hereby
declared to be a nuisance and shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
permit grass, except ornamental grass, to grow or remain in any place or
location within the corporate limits of the city to a height in excess of eight
inches, or refuse or neglect to trim trees or bushes, or remove nuisance bushes
or trees in the city.
   (B)   Removal of noxious plants, weeds, grass, bushes and trees.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of every lot or
tract of land within the corporate limits of the city to: cut, destroy or
remove, or cause to be cut, destroyed or removed, every such weed or plant; cut
any grass as described in division (A) above; trim trees or bushes; or remove
nuisance bushes or trees, upon every such lot or tract of land in such manner
and on or before such time as such weeds, plants or grass reach or exceed the
height of eight inches or such trees or bushes become a nuisance.
      (2)   Upon the failure of any such owner or occupant so to do, it shall
be the duty of the Building Department to serve or cause to be served a notice,
demanding the abatement of such growth as a nuisance, within a period of five
days from the date of such service. Failure of any owner or occupant to comply
with the provisions and demands of such notice shall constitute a violation of
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Any owner or occupant served with a five-day notice shall be deemed
to have refused or neglected to cut, trim or remove such weeds, trees, bushes,
plants or grass pursuant to this section. The written notice shall be in force
for a period of 12 months from the date the notice was issued. Failure of any
owner or occupant to comply with the provisions and demands of a notice served
within the previous 12 months shall constitute a violation of the provisions of
this section, and it shall be a new violation every day the nuisance is allowed
to continue. For the purpose of this section, an owner or occupant shall be
deemed served when notice has been sent by certified mail and posted on the
subject property. An owner may also be deemed served when notice has been sent
via facsimile or electronic mail.
      (2)   The cost of cutting, trimming or removing of weeds, grass, plants,
trees or bushes shall not be a lien on the real estate affected unless a notice
is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was
sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding
year. The notice shall be sent after the cutting, trimming or removal of the
weeds, grass, plants, trees or bushes on the property.
   (D)   Abatement. If, upon the expiration of the five-day period provided in
the notice, for a period of 12 months from the date of service, any owner or
occupant of any premises in the city upon which any such weeds, plants, trees,
bushes or grass are caused or permitted to grow in violation of the provisions
of this section, it shall be the duty of the Building Department, or any
department in the city directed to do so, to proceed to eliminate the nuisance
by cutting, destroying or otherwise removing the weeds, plants, trees, bushes
or grass and to keep an account of the expense thereof, and such expense shall
be charged to the owner, or the owner and occupant jointly, of the premises,
and it shall be the duty of the owner or the owner and occupant jointly to pay
such expense.
   (E)   Lien. The city shall have a continuing lien upon the premises and real
estate upon which any noxious weeds or plants or nuisance trees, bushes or
grass shall be caused or permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of
this section, for or on account of which it is necessary for any expense to be
suffered or incurred by the city for the cutting, destroying or otherwise
removing of any weeds, plants, trees, bushes or grass. Every lien shall, upon
compliance with the conditions hereinafter set forth, become and be prior and
superior to the rights and interest of creditors, encumbrances, purchasers and
other parties in interest in such premises and real estate. Such lien may be
preserved and enforced in the following manner: The Clerk shall, within 60 days
after the accrual of such expense or cost or charge, file or cause to be filed
with the Recorder of Deeds a claim for lien, verified by the affidavit of an
officer of the city having knowledge of the facts, which shall consist of a
brief statement of the facts of the claim, the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, the date or dates when
such cost and expense were incurred by the city and a sufficiently correct
description of the lot, lots or tract or tracts of land or real estate to
properly identify such land or real estate. No such lien shall be defeated in
the proper amount thereof because of error or overcharging on the part of the
city, nor shall any such lien be defeated upon proof that the expense or cost
or charge resulted from or was incurred by reason or fault of any tenant or
occupant or other person in possession other than the owner.
    (F)   Foreclosure of lien. If payment is not made as provided in this
section of any amount due by virtue of its provisions when the same shall
become due, the city may file or cause to be filed a petition or bill in the
appropriate court for a foreclosure of mortgages. Such suit shall be commenced
within two years after the accrual of such expense or cost or charge. Any
decree rendered in court may be enforced and collected as other decrees or
judgments in such court.
   (G)   Right of city to enforce. The remedy provided in this section shall
not be construed to abridge or in any manner interfere with the right and power
of the city to enforce the collection thereof by an action at law or as
otherwise provided in this section, but the remedy herein provided shall be
taken and held as an additional means to enforce payment of such delinquent
expense or cost or charge.
(Prior Code, § 12.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Prohibition. Except as provided herein, the open burning of any
materials or substances is prohibited within the city limits, other than the
preparation of food on a temporary or permanent fireplace grill or barbecue pit
and as otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Preparation of food on a temporary or permanent grill or barbecue
pit;
      (2)   Duly organized units of government when conducting a controlled
burn and when authorized by the City Council. Any unit of government conducting
an authorized controlled burn within the city shall notify the Police
Department of the time and location of the controlled burn. The Chief of Police
may impose such conditions and limitations upon said controlled burns as the
Chief deems appropriate;
      (3)   Recreational campfires are allowed if the following conditions are
met.
         (a)   The recreational campfire is attended by a responsible person
over the age of 21 years, who shall have a garden hose connected to a water
supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
         (b)   The recreational campfire location is not less than 30 feet from
any structure and adequate provisions are made to prevent fire from spreading
to within 30 feet of any structure.
         (c)   Materials burned shall only be firewood and fire logs. No
refuse, leaves, grass or shrubbery clippings may be burned.
         (d)   Recreational campfires must be kept at a maximum size of three
feet by three feet by three feet.
         (e)   No recreational campfires are permitted when winds are greater
than ten mph.
          (f)   Recreational campfire shall be extinguished when left
unattended or abandoned.
      (4)   In the AT Agricultural Transition District within the city pursuant
to the County Department of Health Landscape Regulations, Article III, § 1.29,
regarding open burning restrictions, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 12.09) (Ord. 10-6-4, passed - -; Ord. 13-6-4, passed - -; Ord.
24-2-3, passed 2-26-2024) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.10 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Automatic dialer alarms. Automatic dialer alarms that dial directly
into the Police Department are not allowed to be used within the corporate
limits of the city, with the exception of those used by the city and those
authorized by the Chief of Police based upon special facts involving medical
and/or life threatening circumstances.
   (B)   Audible alarms. Any alarm that emits an audible alarm is required to
have a cut-off timer that will shut the alarm off automatically after 30
minutes.
   (C)   False alarms. Any person owning or leasing an alarm system that
transmits an alarm activation, either indirectly or directly to the Police
Department, shall be deemed to have transmitted a false alarm and be in
violation of this section if that person’s alarm system transmits more than
four false alarms within any 12-month period. For the purpose of determining
guilt under this section, a person’s knowledge and intent are not elements of
this offense.
(Prior Code, § 12.10) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 FIRE DISTRICT RAPID ENTRY KEY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Fire District Rapid Entry Key System. A Fire District Rapid Entry Key
System (hereinafter referred to as “KNOX”) shall be installed on all buildings
equipped with a monitored fire alarm system. Installation, location and mode of
KNOX box shall be approved by the Fire District prior to installation.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following situations will be exempt from the KNOX box
installation requirement in division (A) above:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Alarmed buildings that are occupied 24 hours a day throughout the
year; and
      (3)   Buildings with on-premises guard service with key access to all
building areas.
(Prior Code, § 12.11)
§ 92.12 NO SMOKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more
than 10% of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises.
BAR includes, but is not limited to, taverns, clubs, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, adult entertainment facilities and cabarets.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a nonprofit entity.
      EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust or nonprofit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
      ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed
or partially enclosed with solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways or
solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that extend
from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies and
corridors.
      ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA. Any sports pavilion,
stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice
rink, bowling alley or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational or
other events.
      GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES. Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
State Gaming Board Rules of the State Administrative Code, being I.A.C. Title
11, Chapter 1.
      GAMING FACILITY. An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
      HEALTHCARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental or emotional or other medical,
physiological or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists and all specialists
within these professions. HEALTHCARE FACILITY includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semi-private rooms and wards within healthcare
facilities.
      PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave or pass through during the
course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance of 15 feet from entrances,
exits, windows that open and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference and
classrooms; break rooms; cafeterias and other common areas. A private residence
or home-based business, unless used to provide licensed child care, foster
care, adult care or other similar social service care on the premises, is not a
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.
      PRIVATE CLUB. A not-for-profit association that: has been in active and
continuous existence for at least three years prior to the effective date of
the Act, whether incorporated or not; is the owner, lessee or occupant of a
building or portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times; is
operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain; and only sells
alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. For the purpose of this
definition, PRIVATE CLUB means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution or both to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. § 501.
      PRIVATE RESIDENCE. The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin or cottage. For the purpose of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
      PROPRIETOR. Any individual or his or her designated agent who, by virtue
of his or her office, position, authority or duties, has legal or
administrative responsibility for the use or operation of property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any building or vehicle used by and open to the public,
regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or in part by
private persons or entities, the state or any other public entity and
regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission, including a minimum
distance of 15 feet from entrances, exits, windows that open and ventilation
intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. A PUBLIC PLACE
does not include a private residence unless the private residence is used to
provide licensed child care, foster care or other similar social service care
on the premises. A PUBLIC PLACE includes, but is not limited to, enclosed
indoor areas used by the public or serving as a place of work, including, but
not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial
establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls,
public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums,
enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools,
exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming
facilities and all government owned vehicles and facilities, including
buildings and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the state or state
subcontract, healthcare facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers,
retail service establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities,
ticket areas, public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas,
lobbies, bars, taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas and no
less than 75% of the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel, resort, inn,
lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public accommodation that are rented
to guests, but excludes private residences.
      RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to,
coffee shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands and private and public school
cafeterias, that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or
employees, and/or a kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on
the premises for serving elsewhere. RESTAURANT includes a bar area within the
restaurant.
      RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail establishment that derives more than 80%
of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and
related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or
section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type
of liquor, food or restaurant license.
      SMOKE or SMOKING. The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling or exhaling of
any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs or any other
lighted smoking equipment.
   (B)   Smoking in public places prohibited. No person shall smoke in a public
place or any place of employment or within 15 feet of any entrance to a public
place or place of employment. No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased
or operated by the state, city or other political subdivision of the state.
Smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and places of employment unless
exempted by division (E) below.
   (C)   Smoking prohibited in student dormitories. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, smoking is prohibited in any portion of the living
quarters, including, but not limited to, sleeping rooms, dining areas,
restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies and hallways, of a building used in whole or
in part as a student dormitory that is owned and operated or otherwise utilized
by a public or private institution of higher education.
   (D)   Posting of signs; removal of ashtrays; designation of other non-
smoking areas.
      (1)   “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking” symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this section by the owner, operator, manager or other person in control of that
place.
      (2)   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this section shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
      (3)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this section by the owner, operator, manager or other person
having control of the area.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any employer,
owner, occupant, lessee, operator, manager or other person in control of any
public place or place of employment may designate a non-enclosed area of a
public place or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where
smoking is also prohibited provided that such employer, owner, lessee or
occupant shall conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner
described in this section.
   (E)   Exemptions. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section,
smoking is allowed in the following areas:
      (1)   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a child
care, adult day care or other healthcare facility or any other home-based
business open to the public;
      (2)   Retail tobacco stores in operation prior to January 1, 2008. The
retail tobacco store shall annually file with the State Department of Public
Health by January 31 an affidavit stating the percentage of its gross income
during the prior calendar year that was derived from the sale of loose tobacco,
plants or herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes or other smoking devices for
smoking tobacco and related smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that
begins operation after the effective date of January 1, 2008, may only qualify
for an exemption if located in a free-standing structure occupied solely by the
business and smoke from the business does not migrate into an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited;
      (3)   Private and semi-private rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home; and
      (4)   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into non-
smoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than 25% of
the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be designated as rooms where
smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking or non-smoking may not be
changed, except to permanently add additional non-smoking rooms.
   (F)   Enforcement. The State Department of Public Health, state-certified
local public health departments and local law enforcement agencies shall
enforce the provisions of this section and may assess fines pursuant to
division (G) below. Any person may register a complaint with the State
Department of Public Health, a state-certified local public health department
or a local law enforcement agency for a violation of this section.
   (G)   Injunctions. The State Department of Public Health, a state-certified
local public health department, local law enforcement agency or any individual
personally affected by repeated violations may institute, in the circuit court,
an action to enjoin violations of this section.
(Prior Code, § 12.12) (Ord. 08-1-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
92.09 shall be fined not less than $100 for the first offense. The fine for a
second offense shall be not less than $300 and the fine for a third and any
other subsequent offenses shall be not less than $500. The violation of §
92.09 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, to be abated in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 12.09)
   (C)   (1)   A person, corporation, partnership, association or other entity
who violates §
92.12 shall be fined no less than $100 and not more than $250 plus the city’s
cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   A person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment that violates §
92.12 shall be fined: not less than $250 for the first violation; not less than
$500 for the second violation within one year after the first violation; and
not less than $750 for each additional violation within one year after the
first violation.
(Prior Code, § 12.12)
(Ord. 24-2-3, passed 2-26-2024)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Cruelty to animals
   
93.03   Dangerous animals
   
93.04   Noisy animals
   
93.05   Farm animals, exotic animals prohibited
   
93.06   Diseased animals
   
93.07   Dog licenses
   
93.08   Dogs and cats running at large
   
93.09   Animal bites
   
93.10   Dog litter
   
93.11   Limit
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Kennels as a special use in certain zoning districts, see §
158.245
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature, domestic or wild, not including humans.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarondi, bear, hyena, wolf, coyote or life-
threatening snake or reptile.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal, except birds or fish, the ownership of which is
not prohibited under the definition of PROHIBITED ANIMAL set forth herein.
   OWNER. Any person who has:
      (1)   A right of property in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps an animal;
      (3)   Has an animal in his or her care of custody; or
      (4)   Who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
   RUN AT LARGE. To be free of restraints off the premises of the owner.
    PROHIBITED ANIMAL. Pigs, swine, sheep, chickens or other fowl, cattle,
horses, goats or similar animals or any naturally wild animal, except birds or
fish, whether or not bred for domestic purposes. Such ANIMALS shall, however,
be permitted in zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, educational
institutions or veterinary hospitals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which bites or in any other manner, attacks or
attempts to attack, except that any animal that bites, attacks or attempts to
attack any person unlawfully entering upon its owner’s premises, or which is
provoked to attack, shall not be deemed a VICIOUS ANIMAL.
(Prior Code, § 14.01)
§ 93.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal. Any person who inhumanely beats,
under feeds, overloads or abandons any animal is guilty of a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 14.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   All persons owning or in possession of any dangerous or vicious animal shall
restrain said animal from running at large within the city. Exhibitions or
parades of dangerous or otherwise prohibited animals, as defined in §
93.01, may be conducted upon securing a permit from the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 14.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by loud
noises.
(Prior Code, § 14.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 FARM ANIMALS, EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Farm animals. No person shall stable, keep or maintain any prohibited
animals, as defined in §
93.01, in the city, nor shall any person ride, walk or lead such prohibited
animals in the city, except by special permission granted by the City Council;
provided, that horses may be led through the city on a public roadway when safe
to do so without disrupting traffic, and except also that the city may issue a
permit for the use of any horse-drawn carriage for a particular event or
ceremony.
   (B)   Exotic animals. Except as provided herein, no person shall own, keep
or harbor within the city any animal deemed to be dangerous including snakes,
reptiles or lizards that are poisonous; any rodent weighing more than one
pound, with the exception of guinea pigs; or any other exotic animals, as
defined in § 8.04.900 of the County Animal Control Ordinance. This prohibition
shall not apply to property properly zoned for facilities such as zoos, animal
shelters, animal hospitals, kennels, ponds, pet stores and scientific or
research laboratories.
(Prior Code, § 14.05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   All persons owning or in possession of any animal afflicted with a
contagious or infectious disease shall restrain said animal from running at
large within the city where the public health may be affected. No diseased
animal shall be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner except under
the supervision of an animal control officer or the State Veterinarian. No
diseased animal shall be brought into the city.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall secure the disposition of any
diseased animal and the treatment of affected premises so as to prevent the
communication and spread of the contagion or infection, except in cases where
the State Veterinarian is empowered to act.
(Prior Code, § 14.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 DOG LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall permit a dog to be or remain in the city without being
registered and licensed by the County Health Department. The registrations and
licensing rules of the county shall prevail.
   (B)   In no case shall a dog that has not been inoculated against rabies be
allowed to be or remain in the city.
(Prior Code, § 14.07) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Running at large. It shall be unlawful to permit any dog or cat to run
at large in the city at any time. Dogs and cats which are on any street, alley
or sidewalk or other public place without being held securely on a leash or
restrained shall be deemed to be running at large.
   (B)   Nuisance. Any dog found in the city either without a license or
running at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be relinquished
to the Animal Control Division of the county.
   (C)   Redemption. The owner of any dog impounded may redeem it by paying all
the costs, charges and penalties that have accrued by the city or county.
   (D)   Dangerous and vicious dogs. Any dog that has been involved in an
incident which may result in a dangerous and vicious dog determination shall be
relinquished to the Animal Control Division of the county for such a
determination under the terms of § 8.04.860, Dangerous, Potentially Dangerous
and Vicious Animals, of the County Animal Control Ordinance. Guide dogs for the
blind and hearing impaired, support dogs for the physically handicapped of
police owned dogs are exempt from this section; provided, that such dogs are in
compliance with §
93.07.
(Prior Code, § 14.08) (Ord. 09-7-2, passed - -; Ord. 19-9-1, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   Whenever a dog or other animal bites a person, the owner of the animal
shall immediately notify the Chief of Police, who shall order the animal held
on the owner’s premises or shall have it impounded for a period of two weeks.
   (B)   The animal shall be examined immediately after it has bitten any
person and the animal’s owner is known, the Chief shall deliver written notice
to the owner who shall give up the animal to the Police Department for
confinement or the owner shall confine the animal himself or herself with the
written consent of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 14.09)
§ 93.10 DOG LITTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or otherwise
having possession or control of a dog to walk said dog in or upon any public
way or other public place in the city without having on his or her person
sufficient equipment to remove from the public way or other public place any
dog litter which may be deposited by said dog.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping or otherwise
having possession or control of a dog to allow said dog to deposit any litter
upon any public way or other public place in the city or upon any private
property not owned by that person unless that person has the permission of the
owner of the property or immediately removed said dog litter from the property.
(Prior Code, § 14.10) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 LIMIT.
   (A)   Single-family dwelling. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on
any lot or premises or portion thereof more than four dogs, cats or domestic
animals, as defined in §
93.01, over four months of age or more than two such animals boarded for
compensation or sale. If more than one person resides on any lot or premises or
portion thereof, then the person who owns, leases, possesses or controls said
premises shall be presumed, for the purpose of this chapter, to be the keeper
of all animals kept thereon, regardless of the legal ownership thereof.
However, in no event shall a nonresident owner of property be held liable
hereunder, where there is a person on the premises.
   (B)   Multiple-family dwelling. No more than one dog or two other domestic
animals shall be permitted in a multiple-family dwelling unit.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to pet shops, zoological
parks, performing animal exhibitions, educational institutions, veterinary
hospitals or duly organized animal shelters.
(Prior Code, § 14.11) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.08 shall be fined not less than $50 for each offense and be responsible for
reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution including attorneys’ fees incurred
by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any property damaged
or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 14.08)
(Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING GENERALLY
      
111.   OCCUPATION AND OTHER TAXES
      
112.   SOLICITORS
      
113.   ADULT BUSINESS LICENSES
      
114.   SCAVENGERS, RECYCLABLES AND REFUSE
      
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
116.   CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
117.   TAXICABS AND CHARTERED TRANSPORTATION OF DROP-OFFS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Business registration
Home Sales, Occupations and the Like
   
110.15   Garage sales
   
110.16   Raffles
   
110.17   Bed and breakfast licensing requirements
Amusement Licenses
   
110.30   Definition
   
110.31   Amusement license required
   
110.32   Application and fee
   
110.33   Amusement license conditions
   
110.34   Inspection and seizure of amusement devices
   
110.35   Amusement device confiscation, forfeiture, hearing and sale
   
110.36   Amusement device judicial review
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Occupational taxes, see
Chapter 111
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 BUSINESS REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to require sufficient
information relative to business establishments within the city to enable the
city to provide better life, health, safety and security services to business
establishments, and facilitate effective and timely communication between the
city, the Fire District and the owners of business establishments.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, a BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT
includes any individual, corporation, association, limited liability company,
partnership or any other legal entity that is engaged in the sale of goods or
services within the city. The following entities are not to be included: not-
for-profit entities and legally permitted home occupation businesses.
   (C)   Requirements; fees.
      (1)   Registration required.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a business
establishment in the city without obtaining and maintaining in force a
registration certificate in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Registration certificates issued by the city expire on April 30 of each year.
         (b)   All owners of business establishments shall, on or before May 1
of each calendar year (“due date”), apply for a registration certificate on
form provided by the city. The registration certificate form shall include the
following information:
            1.   Name, location and phone number of the business establishment;
            2.   Owner’s address and emergency cell/telephone number;
            3.   Nature of business establishment;
            4.   Hours of operation
            5.   Nature of security system, if any, and the name and telephone
number of the company providing the security service;
            6.   Number of employees of the business establishment;
            7.   Form of ownership of the business establishment (e.g.,
individual, partnership, corporation or other); and
            8.   Name, address and cell/telephone number of the lessor, if
applicable.
      (2)   Fees. The fee for a business registration certificate is listed
below:
         (a)   New business: $50 one-time fee;
         (b)   Existing business: no fee; and
         (c)   New businesses (under same ownership): $25 one-time fee, $10
one-time fee for additional businesses.
      (3)   Inspection. Upon receipt of the registration forms and/or payment
of any required fee from the owner of a business establishment, the city may
inspect the business establishment for compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code. After issuance of a registration certificate, the city
may inspect a business establishment as often as it deems necessary to confirm
that the premises is in conformity with the applicable provisions of this code.
The city may deny issuance of a registration certificate or revoke an existing
certificate if the premises are not in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
      (4)   Late fees.
         (a)   Any business registration applications received 90 days after
the application deadline of May 1 will be considered late and will be
administered a $50 late fee.
         (b)   The annual registration and license fee for certain specified
businesses and events is found in the following table.
Business/Event Fee
Business/Event                                                            Fee
Automatic amusement device (each device)                                  $50
Business registration (NEW)                                               $50
Carnival, per day (65 ILCS 11-54.102)                                     $150
Cigarette vending machine (each machine)                                  $75
Circus, per day (65 ILCS 5/11-42-5)                                       $150
Dance hall, entertainment provided (65 ILCS 5/11-42-5)                    $150
Food truck (per truck)                                                    $50
Ice cream vehicle (per vehicle)                                           $50
Handbills, samples and advertisements, distribution (distribution of free
political, civic or religious items and advertising for city businesses   $50
are exempt)
Junk peddler (each vehicle) (65 ILCS 5/11-42-5)                           $100
Solicitation (per person for a three-day license)                         $300
Sound trucks (per vehicle, per day)                                       $25
Taxicab, maximum fee for each taxicab business (65 ILCS 5/11-42-6)        $75
 
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 18-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 20-7-2, passed - -; Ord.
24-8-3, passed 8-12-2024; Ord. 25-2-1, passed 2-10-2025) Penalty, see §
110.99
**** HOME SALES, OCCUPATIONS AND THE LIKE ****
§ 110.15 GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   For the purpose of the section, GARAGE SALE shall mean and include
all sales of tangible personal property conducted on premises in the city that
are zoned for residential use, regardless of the name by which such sale may be
called.
      (2)   Permits for garage sales shall be limited to the sale of household
goods and furnishings. No person, firm or corporation shall, at any garage
sale, sell any goods acquired in wholesale lots.
   (B)   Licensing.
      (1)   Such license shall be issued to any one address only twice within a
12-month period, and no such license shall be issued for more than six days
total for the 12-month period. The license shall allow for the sale to be
conducted between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the permitted days.
Each license issued under this section must be prominently displayed on the
premises upon which the garage sale is conducted throughout the entire period
of the licensed sale.
      (2)   Each license issued under this section must be prominently
displayed on the premises upon which the garage sale is conducted throughout
the entire period of the licensed sale.
   (C)   Signs. Signs advertising or indicating the existence, location and
time of a sale shall be limited to three in number and shall be displayed only
during the dates the sale is in progress. A sign must have its own support or
post to be affixed in the ground. Under no circumstances shall a sign be
attached to a telephone pole, tree or a federal, state or local sign or signal.
No sign shall project higher than three feet above the ground level. All signs
must be removed by the party holding the sale within 24 hours of the last day
of the sale.
   (D)   Information to be filed. The information to be filed with the license
application shall be as follows:
      (1)   Name of person, firm, group, corporation, association or
organization conducting said sale;
      (2)   Name of owner of the property on which said sale is to be conducted
if applicant is other than the owner;
      (3)   Location at which sale is to be conducted;
      (4)   Dates of sale;
      (5)   Date, nature of any past sale;
      (6)   Relationship or connection applicant may have had with any other
person, firm, group, organization, association or corporation conducting any
past sale and the date or dates of such sale;
      (7)   Whether or not applicant has been issued any other vendor’s license
by any local, state or federal agency;
      (8)   The location of any signs applicant intends to place; and
      (9)   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing that the
information therein given is full and true and known to him or her to be so.
   (E)   Persons and sales excepted. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to or affect the following persons or sales:
      (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
      (3)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically name or described in the advertisement
and which separate items do not exceed five in number; and
      (4)   Not-for-profit organizations, provided they file with the
Administrator a request for exception containing the information specified in
division (D) above, together with the name of the organization, proof of its
not-for-profit status and a description of the purpose of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 13-6-2, passed - -)
§ 110.16 RAFFLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. A voluntary organization composed of individuals
and businesses who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of the city.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefits upon the public.
      EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax
supported schools.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common
interest, the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its
members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
lessen the burdens of government by caring for those who otherwise would be
cared for by the government.
      LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with
the objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit
and the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
      NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
conducted on a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone
as a result of such operation.
      ON-GOING RAFFLE. A raffle in which there is one sale of chances before an
initial drawing date; thereafter, the chances shall be valid at subsequent
drawings in the same raffle.
      RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 5/28-2(b) of the Criminal Code
of 2012 (720 ILCS 5/28-2) conducted by an organization licensed under this
section in which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
      RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
      VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of
members of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses,
widows or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the
welfare of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such
a way as to confer a public benefit.
   (B)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise
transfer for value a chance on a raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license
duly issued by the city and in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   License application.
      (1)   Contents of application. Any person seeking to conduct or operate a
raffle shall file an application therefor with the Clerk on forms provided by
the Clerk. The application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and type of organization;
         (b)   The length of existence of the organization and, if
incorporated, the date and state of incorporation;
         (c)   The name, address, telephone number, Social Security number and
date of birth of the organization’s presiding officer, secretary, raffles
manager and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle;
         (d)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
         (e)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the
raffle;
         (f)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
         (g)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
         (h)   The area or areas in which the raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
         (i)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or
sold;
         (j)   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
         (k)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of
the applicant organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary of
that organization; and
         (l)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
      (2)   Fees. A fee shall be charged by the city and paid to the Clerk at
the time of application for a raffle license. Not-for-profit organizations
shall be exempt from paying said license fee. The fee, based on the aggregate
retail value of prizes, shall be as follows.
 
Aggregate Retail Value of Prize Fee
Less than $500                  $5
$500 to $999                    $15
$1,000 to $9,999                $25
$10,000 to $99,999              $35
More than $100,000              $50
 
   (D)   Licensee qualifications.
      (1)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, religious and veterans organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years or more immediately preceding the
making of application for a license and which have had during that entire five-
year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or
to a nonprofit fund raising organization that the city determines is organized
for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified
individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the
result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster.
      (2)   The following are ineligible for any license under this section:
         (a)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
         (b)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or a
gambling promoter;
         (c)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
         (d)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in division
(D)(2)(a), (D)(2)(b) or (D)(2)(c) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which such a person is active or employed;
         (e)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (D)(2)
(a), (D)(2)(b) or (D)(2)(c) above is an officer, director or employee, whether
compensated or not; and
         (f)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (D)(2)
(a), (D)(2)(b) or (D)(2)(c) above is to participate in the management or
operation of a raffle, as defined herein.
   (E)   Issuance of license.
      (1)   The Administrator or his or her designee shall review all raffle
license applications and shall, within 30 days from the date of application,
accept or reject a raffle license application. If an application is accepted, a
license shall be issued and shall be valid for a period of 30 days from and
after its issuance unless the Administrator specifically authorizes a license
for a longer period, but in no case for more than 60 days, except for ongoing
raffles, as defined herein.
      (2)   A raffle license shall show the following:
         (a)   The area or areas in which raffle chances may be sold or issued;
         (b)   The period of time during which the raffle chances may be sold
or issued;
         (c)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold; and
         (d)   The date, time and location on or at which winning chances will
be determined.
      (3)   Said license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the winning chances.
      (4)   A license shall be valid for one raffle only; however, multiple
licenses may be issued for multiple raffles to a licensee.
   (F)   Conduct of raffles.
      (1)   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions.
         (a)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that
game.
         (b)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring
organization may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
         (c)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of the raffle.
         (d)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this section.
         (e)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued
or otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the
license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
         (f)   1.   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon the
following:
               a.   The cost of said chance;
               b.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in
said raffle;
               c.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued; and
               d.   The date(s), time(s) and location(s) on or at which winning
chances will be determined.
            2.   However, when raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred only at the time and location at which winning chances
will be determined and only to persons then in attendance, the face of the
raffle chance need not contain such information.
         (g)   No cash prize in excess of $500,000 may be awarded.
         (h)   No real property, including land and any buildings thereon, may
be the prize in a raffle unless the organization holding the raffle license
owns fee simple title as to the entire subject real property.
         (i)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles of chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be
within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian.
         (j)   No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value to or by any person under the age of 18 years
without the permission of his or her parent or guardian.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any person may make a gift of a
chance to any person of any age.
   (G)   Raffles manager, bonds.
      (1)   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
      (2)   The raffles manager shall give a fidelity bond, equal in amount to
the aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded, in favor of the
licensee, conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or her
duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing
to the licensing authority not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (H)   Records.
      (1)   (a)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which
winning chances are to be determined. All deductions from gross receipts for
each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other
records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service
or other reason for the deduction and the recipient.
         (b)   The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment.
      (2)   (a)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts,
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue, and placed in a
separate account. Each licensee shall have separate records of its raffles.
         (b)   The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
      (3)   Each licensee shall report within 30 days after the conclusion of
each raffle to its membership and to the Clerk: its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required herein.
      (4)   Records required herein shall be preserved for three years, and
licensees shall make available their records relating to operation of raffles
for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 BED AND BREAKFAST LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to set forth licensing
requirements, standards and procedures for bed and breakfast establishments in
the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT or ESTABLISHMENT. An operator occupied
residence providing accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than
five guest rooms for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month
period. Breakfast may be provided to the guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST
ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses or food
service establishments.
      BED AND BREAKFAST GUEST or GUEST. Any person or persons staying in a
guest room overnight on a transient basis, but for not more than 15 consecutive
days, and having a permanent residence at an address other than that of the
establishment.
      GUEST ROOM. A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two transient
guests per night.
      OPERATOR. The owner of an establishment, or the owner’s agent, who is
required by the Bed and Breakfast Act (50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.) (“Act”) to reside
in the establishment, or on contiguous property.
   (C)   Licensing and inspection requirements.
      (1)   An establishment shall not be operated or maintained in the city
without first obtaining a valid operating license as required by this section
and a special use permit pursuant to
Chapter 158.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast operating license applications are available from
City Hall. Completed applications shall be submitted to the City Administrator.
      (3)   A bed and breakfast operating license shall not be issued nor
renewed until the facilities have been inspected and approved by the city, the
County Health Department and the city’s Fire Protection District. Proof of such
inspections shall be submitted with the initial application or the renewal
application.
      (4)   Each license issued shall expire on December 31 after the first
calendar year or portion thereof and following two consecutive calendar years
of operation. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast operating license shall be conspicuously
displayed within the establishment and cannot be transferred to another person,
location or establishment.
      (6)   The fee for an operating or renewal license shall be $25 and shall
be valid for the remainder of the calendar year in which it is issued and for
the following two consecutive calendar years.
   (D)   Minimum standards. An establishment shall be subject to the
requirements of the Act and the following minimum standards.
      (1)   Each establishment shall maintain a guest register and be available
for inspection by the city at any time.
      (2)   Guests shall not be permitted to stay overnight in any portion of
the establishment that is not designated as a guest room.
      (3)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each authorized
guest room, plus an additional two spaces for the principal residential
dwelling. These requirements may be reduced by the city if the operator can
demonstrate the ability of and permission to use alternative off-site parking
accommodations.
      (4)   Exterior signage for the establishment in a residential zoning
district shall consist of no more than one sign having an area of no more than
three square feet and kept in good repair.
      (5)   Means of egress from an establishment shall not be blocked or
obstructed.
      (6)   Whenever guests are present, the owner or the owner’s agent shall
be present.
      (7)   The owner of the establishment shall have liability insurance
coverage for guests in the amount of at least $500,000. A copy of such
insurance coverage shall be submitted with the license application or license
renewal.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 09-9-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
**** AMUSEMENT LICENSES ****
§ 110.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED OR AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Each and any machine, apparatus
or device which, upon insertion of a coin, token or dollar bill(s), may be
operated as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any kind or description,
whereby the player initiates, employs or directs any force or energy by the
machine.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 110.31 AMUSEMENT LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Intent. Any person, partnership, firm, club, association or
corporation engaged in the business of leasing, renting or contracting for the
use or display of a coin-operated device to be used or operated by the public
within the city for entertainment or recreation purposes shall, before entering
any lease, retail agreement or contract agreement with the owner or lessee of
any premises, obtain a license from the city for the purpose of engaging in the
business of leasing, renting or contracting for the use of any such devices.
Or, any person, partnership, firm club, association or corporation owning any
coin-operated device and also engaging in any business whereby these internally
owned devices are to be used or operated by the public within the jurisdiction
of the city for entertainment, amusement or recreation purposes, shall obtain a
license for the purpose of so displaying such devices for use or operation by
the public.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
   (B)   License required. No person, partnership, firm, club, association or
corporation shall operate or maintain any automatic amusement device without
first having obtained a license as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Application for amusement license. Any person, partnership, firm,
club, association or corporation desiring a city amusement license shall make
application for that purpose to the city, which application shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The full name of the applicant;
      (2)   The address, location and character of the building or place
wherein the automatic amusement devices are to be located, maintained and
operated;
      (3)   The number of such devices to be located, maintained and operated
in such building or place; and
      (4)   The type of machine to be located, maintained and operated and the
charge to be made to the customer for operating such device.
   (B)   Amusement device license fee. See §
110.01.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 110.33 AMUSEMENT LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Placement of amusement devices. All licensed automatic amusement
devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of any person(s)
who may frequent or be in any place of business where such devices are kept or
used. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, regulate,
permit or license any gambling device or authorize any gambling which shall
only be permitted as provided in §
115.52.
   (B)   Display of amusement license. Each automatic amusement device shall
have a city issued license affixed to the device in plain view as to allow for
an inspection of the device.
   (C)   Revocation of license. In addition to any penalty imposed, the city
may revoke such license for good cause, including a violation of this
subchapter or any other ordinance or law of the state pertaining to automatic
amusement devices or conduct of the business in which the automatic amusement
device is kept or used.
   (D)   Terms of amusement license. Each license shall be for a one-year
period which shall be from May 1 through April 30 of each following year. Any
license issued after May 1 shall require the $50 fee per device and will expire
April 30 regardless of the date issued. Licenses are not to be transferred
amongst machines and will be replaced if lost, damaged or stolen for a fee of
$2. All automatic amusement devices must be in compliance within 30 days of the
adoption of this amendment (February 9, 2006).
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 12-5-3, passed - -; Ord. 12-10-3, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.34 INSPECTION AND SEIZURE OF AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   Any automatic amusement device operated within the city is subject to
inspection by the city. Any authorized city employee may, without a search
warrant, seize any automatic amusement device which is being displayed in his
or her presence in a manner that violates any provision of this subchapter.
Such amusement device so seized shall be subject to confiscation and forfeiture
as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 32.06)
§ 110.35 AMUSEMENT DEVICE CONFISCATION, FORFEITURE, HEARING AND SALE.
   (A)   After seizing any automatic amusement device as provided in §
110.34, the city’s General Administration Committee (“Committee”) shall hold a
hearing and determine whether such amusement device was properly licensed and/
or being used in a manner which violates any provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Notification of this hearing will be posted at City Hall, 132 East
Prairie Street, sent via certified mail to the owner of the automatic amusement
device as reflected on the license application and if such person is not the
owner of the seized device, sent via certified mail to the person who was in
possession of the automatic amusement device at the time such device was
confiscated at the address where such device was confiscated.
   (C)   In the case that neither the owner nor the person in possession of the
amusement device is known, the Committee shall cause publication of the time
and place of such hearing to be made at least once a week for three consecutive
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
   (D)   If, as a result of such hearing, the Committee determines that the
seized amusement device was, at the time of seizure, being displayed in a
manner which violates this subchapter, the Committee shall enter an order
declaring the amusement device confiscated and forfeited to the city and to be
sold by the city in the manner provided herein. The Committee shall give notice
of such order to the owner of the device if he or she is known and also to the
person in whose possession the amusement device so taken was found. In the case
neither the owner nor the person in possession of the device is known, the
Committee shall cause publication of such order to be made at least once a week
for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
   (E)   The person from whom the amusement device has been seized (or the
owner, if that is a different person) may redeem and reclaim the device within
30 days after the Committee’s order of confiscation and forfeiture becomes
final by payment of an amount equal to twice the annual fee applicable to the
amusement device, plus any cost of seizure, transportation, storage of the
device and public hearing, as well as any fines imposed.
   (F)   If no complaint for review, as provided in §
110.36, has been filed within the time required by the Administrative Review
Law, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., and if such amusement device is not
redeemed and reclaimed within the time and in the manner provided for in this
section, the Committee shall proceed to sell said property for the best price
obtainable and shall forthwith pay over the proceeds of such sale to the city;
provided, however, that if the value of the property to be sold at any one time
shall be $500 or more, such property shall be sold only to the highest and best
bidder on such terms and conditions and on open competitive bidding after
public advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 32.07)
§ 110.36 AMUSEMENT DEVICE JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   All final administrative decisions of the city and/or the Committee under
this subchapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions
of the Administrative Review Law, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., and any
amendment and/or modifications thereof and the rules adopted relative thereto.
(Prior Code, § 32.09)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
110.01 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum of not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to have been
committed on each day in which a violation occurs or continues. The city
reserves the right to shut off water service to the structure occupied by the
unregistered business so long as the business registration fee remains unpaid.
Prior to shut-off, notice shall be given to the property owner where the
unregistered business is located. In addition, the unregistered business owner
shall be liable to the city for all attorneys’ fees incurred by the city to
enforce §
110.01.
(Prior Code, § 32.10)
   (C)   Any person, association or corporation conducting any such sale
without being properly licensed therefor, or who shall violate any of the other
terms and regulations of §
110.15 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500
for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
   (D)   (1)   Violation of §
110.16 or any of its requirements or provisions shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than $50. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Each member of the sponsoring organization shall be jointly
and severally liable with the organization and with each other for any
violation.
      (2)   The imposition of penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude
the city from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful raffles or to
restrain, enjoin, correct or abate a violation of §
110.16 or of the conditions of the raffle license issued pursuant hereto.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating, disobeying
or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of §
110.17, the Act and/or special use permit shall be fined not less than $200 or
more than $750 for each offense. In addition to this penalty, a licensee
violating any provision of §
110.17, the Act, special use permit or other applicable and relevant
regulations of the city may be subject to having his, her or their license
revoked, suspended or not renewed.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
   (F)   (1)   Any licensee, person, partnership, firm, club, association or
corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of §§
110.30 through
110.36 on any two occasions which are separated by a period of not less than 30
days, shall have its license revoked if, upon a bearing before the Committee,
there is a finding that said violations did occur. In such event the license
shall be revoked forthwith and, in addition, the licensee or any person,
partnership, firm, corporation or other entity shall be ineligible to be
licensed in the following year.
      (2)   Thereafter, any licensee, person partnership, firm, club,
association or corporation convicted of a third violation of the provision of
§§
110.30 through
110.36 occurring at any time if, upon a hearing before the Committee, there is
a finding that said violations did occur, then no such licensee, person,
partnership, firm or corporation required to be licensed under the provisions
of §§
110.30 through
110.36 shall be granted a license under the provision of §§
110.30 through
110.36 and any license issued to such licensee shall be revoked.
      (3)   Any person, partnership, firm club, association or corporation
violating any of the provisions of §§
110.30 through
110.36 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. Each day that the
violation exists shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
      (4)   Any person, partnership, firm, club, association or corporation who
shall knowingly file a false application or provide false information on the
application required by §§
110.30 through
110.36 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 32.08)
(Ord. 24-8-3, passed 8-12-2024; Ord. 25-2-1, passed 2-10-2025)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATION AND OTHER TAXES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Municipal retailers occupation tax
   
111.02   Municipal service occupation tax
   
111.03   Municipal use tax
   
111.04   Police protection tax
   
111.05   Hotel/motel tax
   
111.06   Taxation of occupations or privileges
   
111.07   Municipal cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
111.20   Definitions
   
111.21   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
111.22   Collection of tax retailers
   
111.23   Returns to Department
   
111.24   Resellers
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licensing provisions generally, see
Chapter 110
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 MUNICIPAL RETAILERS OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Required tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in
this city at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3, as amended.
   (B)   Report to state. Every such person engaged in such business in the
city shall file, on or before the fifteenth day of each calendar month, the
report to the State Department of Revenue as required by 35 ILCS 120/3 (“An Act
in Relation to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property”).
   (C)   Payment to state. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on
account of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the
preceding month, together with any penalties then due, if any, and such other
information as may be required by 35 ILCS 120/3.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 111.02 MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Required tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicers either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/
8-1-1.4, as amended.
   (B)   Report to state. Every supplier or servicer required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this city shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue as required by 35 ILCS 115/9 (“An Act to Impose a Tax upon Persons
Engaged in the Business of Making Sales of Service”).
   (C)   Payment to state. At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed
together with any penalties then due and such other information as my be
required.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 111.03 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Required tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in
the city, any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the
state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with any
agency of this state’s government, at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such
tangible personal property; SELLING PRICE is defined in 35 ILCS 105/2 (State
Use Tax Act).
   (B)   Report to state. Such tax shall be collected from persons whose state
address for titling or registration purposes is given as being in the city.
Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 111.04 POLICE PROTECTION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police protection in this city at
the rate of 0.05% of the value, as equalized or assessed by the Department of
Revenue of all the taxable property therein for the first year in which the tax
is levied, and at the rate of 0.075% of the value as equalized or assessed by
the Department of Revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
§ 111.05 HOTEL/MOTEL TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than six guest rooms for
rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period in which
breakfast may be provided to the guests, but not the general public.
      HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses with more than five guest units for rent.
      OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or a right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
      OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms,
in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited
liability company or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
      RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits and property or services of any kind or nature.
      ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping
accommodations.
   (B)   Tax. A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of 5% of the gross rental
receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from gross
rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to permanent
residents of that hotel.
   (C)   Payment and collection.
      (1)   The tax levied herein shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes. It shall be the duty of the operator of every hotel to collect
said tax from the guest or lodger, and to pay over to the city said tax on a
quarterly basis as provided herein.
      (2)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall receive said tax from the guest or lodger at the time the room charge is
paid. A receipt, invoice or other statement or memorandum showing the itemized
rental and all taxes shall be issued to the user, lessee or tenant.
   (D)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Inspections. The Administrator or his or her designee may enter the
premises of any hotel for inspection and examination of books and records for
the proper administration of this section and enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the Administrator or his or her designee in enforcing this
section.
      (2)   Records required. It shall be the duty of every person operating a
hotel in the city to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the
Administrator shall, at all times, have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing:
         (a)   The number of hotel rooms rented during the 24-hour period,
including multiple rentals of the same hotel when such occurs; and
         (b)   The actual hotel room tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
      (3)   Quarterly tax returns. Every person operating a hotel shall file
tax returns showing tax receipts received with respect to each hotel during
each three-month period ending on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December
31 of each year, within 30 days after the end of the respective date, upon
forms prescribed by rules and regulations of the Administrator. At the time of
filing said tax returns, the operator shall pay to the city all taxes due for
the period to which the tax return applies. Each return shall be accompanied by
payment to the city of all taxes due and owing for the quarter covered by the
return.
   (E)   Failure to pay tax.
      (1)   Interest and penalty. In the event any hotel owner, manager or
operator fails to collect and pay to the city the tax required hereunder within
30 days after the same is due, interest shall accumulate and be due upon said
tax at the rate of 1% per month commencing as of the first day of the month
following the month for which the tax was to have been collected. In addition,
a penalty of 10% of the tax and interest due shall be assessed and collected
against any hotel owner, manager or operator.
      (2)   Suit for collection. Whenever any person fails to pay any tax
required herein, the City Attorney shall, upon the request of the
Administrator, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of
said tax in behalf of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any
legal fees incurred by the city in the cost of collection shall be paid by the
operator.
      (3)   Revocation of city licenses. If the Mayor, after conducting a
hearing, finds that any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax imposed
herein, he or she may suspend or revoke all city licenses held by the hotel.
The operator shall have an opportunity to be heard at a hearing held not less
than five days after notice of the time and place of the hearing, with said
notice addressed to the operator at the last known place of business, has been
delivered to the operator.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 TAXATION OF OCCUPATIONS OR PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the definitions provided
in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d) shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Occupation or privilege taxes. In addition to all taxes, fees and
other revenue measures imposed by the city, state or any other political
subdivision of the state, a tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the
following occupations or privileges:
      (1)   Persons in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the city and
not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom; and
      (2)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 and any other applicable authority, a
tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming electricity purchased
at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city at the
following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser, except the
city:
         (a)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours (kwh) used or consumed in a
month: $0.61 per kwh;
         (b)   For the next 48,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.40 per
kwh;
         (c)   For the next 50,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.36 per
kwh;
         (d)   For the next 400,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.35 per
kwh;
         (e)   For the next 500,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.34 per
kwh;
         (f)   For the next 2,000,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.32
per kwh;
         (g)   For the next 2,000,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.315
per kwh;
         (h)   For the next 5,000,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.31
per kwh;
         (i)   For the next 10,000,000 kwh used or consumed in a month: $0.305
per kwh; and
         (j)   For all the electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kwh in a month: $0.30 per kwh.
   (C)   Exemptions. No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for those transactions that may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of §
111.01.
   (D)   Application. Such tax shall be in addition to the payment or money, or
value of products or services furnished to this city by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or there under of poles, wire,
pipes or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayers’ business.
   (E)   Collection.
      (1)   The tax imposed by division (B)(2) above shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. The tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. If
the tax is unpaid, it is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge
for delivering the electricity.
      (2)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this section and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity, provided
that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax
related deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax to the
city. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax assessed pursuant to this section to reimburse
the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting tax and supplying
data to the city.
      (3)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to
the city in the manner prescribed herein. Persons delivering electricity who
file returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return,
pay the city the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Books and records.
      (1)   Every person delivering electricity who is required to collect a
tax pursuant to division (B)(2) above shall keep accurate books and records of
all transactions which may affect the tax provided for herein, including, but
not limited to, records of the number of Kilowatt hours (Kwh) used by each
consumer within the city for each month, the charge imposed upon each consumer
for the sale of the electricity and any related services, the amount of tax
imposed by division (B)(2) above billed to each consumer of electricity and the
amount of tax actually collected, the amount of the charge imposed and
collected by the electric distributor as compensation for collecting the tax
provided for in division (E) above, and the total gross receipts received by
the electricity deliverer for each month, not including the tax imposed by
division (B)(2) above.
      (2)   Every person delivering electricity is required to collect a tax as
set forth herein shall provide to the city, within seven days of written
request, copies of all records, or any part thereof, which the city requests,
which the electricity deliverer is required to keep pursuant to this section.
   (G)   Tax remittance and return.
      (1)   Every person collecting a tax pursuant to division (B)(2) above
shall, on a monthly basis, file a return with the city in a form prescribed by
the city along with the total revenues collected. The return and accompanying
remittance shall be delivered to the city on or before the last day of the
month following the month during which the tax is collected or is required to
be collected under division (E) above.
      (2)   Each person who is required to pay a tax pursuant to division (B)
(2) above and who has not paid said tax to the electricity deliverer as
provided for herein, shall file a return with the city, as provided in this
section, and pay directly to the city the tax on or before the last day of the
month following the month during which the electricity was used or consumed.
   (H)   Reports to the city.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month each taxpayer subject to
division (B)(2) above shall make a return to the Treasurer for the preceding
month stating:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Principal place of business;
         (c)   Gross receipts and/or Kilowatt hours during those months upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the city may
require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every third month, each taxpayer shall
make a like return to the Treasurer for a corresponding three-month period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report any pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any difference between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   (I)   Errors. If it appears that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than one
year prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (J)   Recovery deadline. No action to recover any amount of tax due under
the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than one year after the
due date of such amount.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) (Ord. 10-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 10-4-1, passed - -; Ord.
23-9-25, passed - -; Ord. 23-9-2, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 111.07 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Required tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, being 410
ILCS 130/1 et seq., at retail in this city at the rate of 3% of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-23, as
amended.
   (B)   Payment and collection.
      (1)   The tax levied herein shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes. The tax imposed shall be remitted by such retailer to the State
Department of Revenue.
      (2)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by
this section and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be
remitted to the State Department of Revenue shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the state.
      (3)   A retailer may reimburse itself for its seller’s tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that
seller is required to collect.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement. The taxes hereby imposed, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the State Department of Revenue. The State Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 34.07)
**** SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX ****
§ 111.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (35 ILCS 636/5-1 et
seq.).
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
the city regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the city that has imposed a tax under this subchapter and charges
for the portion of the inter-office channels provided within the city. Charges
for that portion of the inter-office channel connecting two or more channel
termination points, one or more of which is located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the city, shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an
amount equal to the total charge for the inter-office channel by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of channel termination points that are
located within the jurisdictional boundary of the city and the denominator of
which is the total number of channel termination points connected by the inter-
office channel. Prior to January 1, 2004, any method consistent with this
subchapter or other method that reasonably apportions the total charges for
inter-office channels among municipalities in which channel termination points
are located shall be accepted as a reasonable method to determine the taxable
portion of an inter-office channel provided within a municipality for that
period. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: the tax imposed by this subchapter; the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act (35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.); the tax imposed by
I.R.C. § 4251, being 26 U.S.C. § 4251; 911 surcharges; or charges added to
customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 5/9-222 (the
Public Utilities Act), as amended, or any similar charges added to customers’
bills by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the State Commerce
Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
the city;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under § 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/9-222.1) to the extent of such
exemption and during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity.
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under the Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices;
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the Act; or
      (10)   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on the
retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail, as defined in this subchapter. The Department may, in its discretion,
upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any
retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the
satisfaction of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure
collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without
charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty
of such RETAILER to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a RETAILER maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE AND THE LIKE.
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems and maritime systems,
SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use, as defined in 35
ILCS 638/1 et seq. (the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act). For
air to ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of
a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by
telephone number, authorization code or location in the state where bills are
sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the city and who incurs a tax liability as authorized by
this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private
line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. For the purpose of this definition, PRIVATE
LINE means a dedicated non-traffic-sensitive- service for a single customer,
that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel or group of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or
more other specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under the Act. For purposes of this subchapter,
prepaid telephone calling arrangements means that term as defined in 35 ILCS
120/2-27 (the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act).
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 10-7-3, passed - -)
§ 111.21 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege that is subject
to taxation under this division (A), any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer
has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be allowed a credit
against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent
of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the municipality that was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax;
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at the rate of 6% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this division (B), any taxpayer, upon proof
that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this state
on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due
and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in a
municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a credit against
any other state or local tax in this state; and
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 10-7-3, passed - -)
§ 111.22 COLLECTION OF TAX RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this subchapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 37.03)
§ 111.23 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   The tax imposed under this subchapter on telecommunication retailers shall
be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
Department pursuant to 35 ILCS 636/5-50 and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the Department to implement the Act.
(Prior Code, § 37.04)
§ 111.24 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
persons having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided in this subchapter, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is non-
taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Prior Code, § 37.05)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
111.06 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $1,000
for each offense and be responsible for the city’s cost of prosecution,
including reasonable attorneys’ fees. Each day that a violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
111.07 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 34.06)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Issuance, denial and revocation of licenses
   
112.06   City policy on soliciting
   
112.07   Notice regulating soliciting
   
112.08   Duty of solicitors
   
112.09   Uninvited soliciting
   
112.10   Time limit on soliciting
   
112.11   License fee
   
112.12   Law enforcement solicitation
   
112.13   Food trucks
   
112.14   Ice cream vehicles
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions provided in state statues
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Numerous complaints have been received by members of the governing
body of this city from occupants of residences and dwelling units about persons
who have gained or sought to gain admittance to their residences for the
purpose of soliciting; or on the pretext of soliciting, have by their conduct
made nuisances of themselves by disturbing and annoying the occupants; or by
their acts and conduct have violated the right of the occupants to the quiet
and peaceful enjoyment and security of their homes.
   (B)   The city declares that the regulations established by this chapter are
necessary for the safety, health, comfort, good order, protection and welfare
of residents of this city who desire the protection of the regulations
established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to call upon any residence in the city
for the purpose of soliciting, without first securing a license from the Chief
of Police, or without being exempt therefrom pursuant to §
112.04. Any person required by this chapter to have a solicitor’s license must
have the license in his or her possession while engaging in solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a solicitor’s license shall be made upon a form
provided by the Chief of Police and filed with the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to wit:
      (1)   Name, address of present place of residence, phone number and date
of birth of the applicant and person who will be soliciting for the applicant;
      (2)   Provide a valid photo identification (driver’s license or state
identification) of the applicant and person who will be soliciting for the
applicant;
      (3)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (4)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is soliciting for and the length of time applicant has been
soliciting for the entity;
      (5)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      (6)   Period of time for which the license is applied for shall not
exceed 30 days;
      (7)   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this chapter was
ever revoked;
      (8)   Whether the applicant was ever convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, or the ordinance of any other state municipality
regulating soliciting;
      (9)   Whether the applicant was ever convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States; and
      (10)   All statements made by the applicant upon application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE, DENIAL AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall issue a license to those
applicants found fully qualified and the license shall be issued forthwith. The
license shall state the expiration date thereof.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application for the
reasons here listed. Endorsement shall then be made by the Chief of Police upon
application of the denial of the application. No license shall be issued to any
person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of
the state or any other state or federal law of the United States, within five
years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of an ordinance of
any municipality regulating this chapter or of an ordinance of any municipality
regulating solicitation; nor to any person who has supplied false information
on the application or has been previously revoked after a license was issued.
   (C)   Any license that has been issued shall be revoked by the Chief of
Police if the holder of the license is convicted of a violation of this
chapter, or has made a false statement in the application or otherwise becomes
disqualified for the issuance of a license. Immediately upon such revocation,
written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of Police to the holder of
the license, in person or by certified United States mail addressed to the
residence set forth in the application. Immediately on giving such notice, the
license shall be null and void.
(Prior Code, § 35.05)
§ 112.06 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City Council that the occupant or occupants of
the residences in this city shall make the determination of whether solicitors
shall be, or shall not be, invited to their residence.
   (B)   If no determination is made as is provided in §
112.07, then soliciting is permitted.
(Prior Code, § 35.06)
§ 112.07 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser or
transient merchant to enter upon or approach any residence within the city for
the purpose of solicitation where there is posted, at or near the primary
entrance to the residence, a sign or notice indicating that such solicitation
is not desired or is prohibited.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a sign or notice shall be deemed
sufficient if it is reasonably visible and contains language such as “No
Soliciting,” “No Solicitors,” “No Peddlers” or any other words of similar
import clearly conveying the occupant’s intent to prohibit or refuse
unsolicited contact.
   (C)   The presence of a sign or notice as described herein shall constitute
prima facie evidence that the solicitor had notice that solicitation was not
permitted.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Persons invited by the occupant;
      (2)   Deliveries of goods or services previously ordered or requested; or
      (3)   Government officials or employees acting within the scope of their
official duties.
(Ord. 26-5-1, passed 5-11-2026) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any premises
in the city, upon which a residence as herein defined is located, to first
examine the notice provided for in §
112.07, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice is present, then the solicitor, whether licensed or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether or not
invited, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
   (C)   A solicitor may not go upon any portion of the yard (other than a
walkway or pathway leading to the front door of the residence), or ring the
doorbell upon or near any back door of any residence, or create any sound in
any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engage
in soliciting in such areas after dark.
(Prior Code, § 35.08)
§ 112.09 UNINVITED SOLICITING.
   It is unlawful and shall constitute a violation of this chapter for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
112.07.
(Prior Code, § 35.09) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is unlawful and shall be a violation of this chapter for any person,
whether licensed or not, to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or
near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 6:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday. Soliciting shall not be permitted on Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 35.10) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 LICENSE FEE.
   All solicitors or applicants for a solicitor’s license shall pay a fee of
$300 per person for a three-day solicitor’s license.
(Prior Code, § 35.11) (Ord. 13-8-1, passed - -)
§ 112.12 LAW ENFORCEMENT SOLICITATION.
   (A)   A person may not solicit property from the general public when the
property or any part of that property in any way tangibly benefits, is intended
to tangibly benefit or is represented to be for the tangible benefit of any law
enforcement officer, law enforcement agency or law enforcement association.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, a solicitation tangibly benefits a law
enforcement agency, officer or association if the proceeds of that solicitation
are used, represented to be used or intended to be used to support a law
enforcement program or purpose which a law enforcement agency or association
otherwise would have to fund through its own budgeting mechanism.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to solicitations:
      (1)   By or on behalf of law enforcement officers campaigning for
election to public office;
      (2)   Solicitations for charitable purposes unrelated to law enforcement
activities; or
      (3)   Solicitations for programs that benefit the general welfare of the
community, and are sanctioned by the Chief of Police, and 100% of the proceeds
collected are devoted to that beneficial program.
(Prior Code, § 35.12)
§ 112.13 FOOD TRUCKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FOOD TRUCK. A food vending business that prepares/serves food from a
permitted vehicle, trailer or cart.
      SPECIAL EVENT. An event held on public and/or private property outside of
the normal and intended use of that property, that has a defined and limited
duration, is open to viewing or participation of the general public or involves
a large gathering of people outside of normal operations, and occurs once or
only a few times per year. Examples of SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not
limited to: carnivals, festivals, parades, open air gatherings, film production
events, religious tent meetings, outdoor sales events and athletic events such
as 5k run/walks, bicycle races or organized rides, or triathlons, or any other
event that requires city approval.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   Food trucks that request to operate on private property shall
submit an application for a food truck permit to the City Police Department.
The request for a food truck permit shall be made on a form available from the
City Police Department.
         (a)   Each truck operating on a single property requires a separate
permit.
         (b)   Each permit shall be valid for one truck at one location. Trucks
requesting to operate on multiple properties require a separate permit for each
property.
      (2)   All permits for operating as a food truck will be valid for one
year, with an effective date of January 1 and an expiration date of December
31.
      (3)   The fee for each license required by this section shall be $50. All
fees required pursuant to this section shall be paid prior to the issuance of
the permit.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. All food trucks are subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   Food trucks may operate on private property in any zoning district
other than residential districts, with the exception of food trucks operating
as part of an approved special event.
      (2)   Food trucks may not operate within the city for more than eight
hours during any 24-hour period, but in no case to exceed the hours of
operation for the business on the property on which the food truck is located,
with the exception of food trucks operating as part of an approved special
event.
      (3)   The food truck’s state business tax (IBT) number shall be provided
with the completed application.
      (4)   Proof of County Health Department approval must be provided with
the completed application prior to beginning operation.
      (5)   For food trucks operating on private property, the applicant must
provide proof in writing that the property owner has granted permission for the
food truck to operate.
      (6)   A fire extinguisher of minimum size 2A10BC shall be provided in the
cooking area. Cooking equipment involving vegetable or animal oils and fats
shall be protected by a Class K rated portable fire extinguisher.
      (7)   Food trucks must provide receptacles for refuse and properly
dispose of all waste.
      (8)   No food truck vehicle shall be operated unless it is covered by a
bond or general liability insurance policy with the city added as an additional
insured party and minimum limits of $1,000,000 individually and in the
aggregate. The licensee shall furnish a copy of such bond or insurance policy
prior to the issuance of a license.
      (9)   Food trucks must comply with all noise regulations of the city.
      (10)   Food trucks may not provide seating or tables for their customers,
with the exception of food trucks operating as part of an approved special
event.
      (11)   Food trucks are allowed to display signage that is painted or
permanently affixed to the vehicle. Food trucks are not allowed to display any
additional signs, such as free-standing sandwich boards.
      (12)   Food trucks may not have amplified sound or music emanating from
the vehicle.
      (13)   Food trucks shall be parked on a suitable surface, as determined
by the City Engineer, for the duration of their operation.
      (14)   Food trucks shall not be allowed to park in fire lanes, handicap
parking spaces or in any other location that will impede traffic flow or create
unsafe conditions for pedestrians.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Food trucks shall be exempt from obtaining a permit under one or
more of the following conditions:
         (a)   The food truck is operating under contract with the city;
         (b)   The food truck is operating as part of an approved special
event; and
         (c)   Ice cream trucks.
      (2)   All food trucks, regardless of whether they meet one or more of the
above criteria, shall still be required to meet the requirements of “conditions
of approval.”
   (E)   Denial of license. An applicant may be denied a food truck license
under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant has previously failed to comply with the provisions
of a food truck permit;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of any provision of
this section; and
      (3)   The applicant has failed to qualify for any other license required
by this code.
   (F)   Revocation of license. The City Police Department or the city may
revoke any issued food truck license under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant is found in violation of this section, or of the
statutes of the state or ordinances of the city relating to the public health,
safety or fire protection;
      (2)   The applicant has made a false material statement in the
application;
      (3)   The applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section or the terms or conditions of the permit issued pursuant to this
section; and
      (4)   The property owner communicates to the city in writing that the
food truck no longer has permission to operate.
(Prior Code, § 35.14) (Ord. 20-7-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 ICE CREAM VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ICE CREAM VEHICLES. A motorized vehicle or device which is not more than
8.6 feet in height at its highest point from the ground, not more than seven
feet in width at its widest point, and not more than 16.4 feet in length at its
longest point with a wheel base not to exceed 9.1 feet; a front track not to
exceed 5.8 feet; and a rear track not to exceed 5.8 feet.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any ice cream vehicle to use the streets
of the city without its owner and operator first obtaining a food vendor
license from the city.
      (2)   All permits for operating as an ice cream vehicle will be valid for
one year, with an effective date of January 1 and an expiration date of
December 31.
      (3)   The license fee shall be $50, per ice cream vehicle. All fees
required pursuant to this section shall be paid prior to the issuance of the
permit.
   (C)   Conditions of approval. All ice cream vehicles are subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   Applications for a city license shall be made in writing to the
City Police Department on the food vendor registration form.
      (2)   The number of ice cream vehicles to be operated under the license
and the vehicle identification number of each must be listed on the
application.
      (3)   The applicant, or licensee when renewing a license, shall furnish
to the city a certificate of safety certifying that each ice cream vehicle is
in a safe mechanical condition and is equipped with proper brakes, lights,
tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror and windshield wipers in good
condition. At any time the city may request a driver or licensee to produce
evidence of compliance with this section.
      (4)   The applicant shall furnish a list of the ice cream vehicle
drivers, including their names and addresses and copy of their state issued
driver’s license.
      (5)   The owner and each driver, including any replacement drivers who
will operate ice cream vehicles in the city, shall sign a waiver authorizing
the city to conduct a background check on each driver. No driver shall operate
any ice cream vehicle within the city until the city completes the background
check and it is satisfactory to the city.
      (6)   Copies of all required county permits shall accompany the
application.
      (7)   Any license shall be subject to revocation by the Mayor and City
Council upon violation of any ordinance or law of the city or state relating to
the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
   (D)   Drivers. While on duty, it shall be unlawful for any driver of an ice
cream vehicle to consume any intoxicating liquor, alcoholic beverage or
cannabis, or to use any profane or obscene language, to shout or call to
prospective customers or to disturb the peace in any manner. It shall be the
duty of each driver to obey all city and state traffic rules.
   (E)   Ice cream vehicles.
      (1)   No ice cream vehicle shall be operated in the city unless it bears
a current state license. If at any time an ice cream vehicle is not in a safe
mechanical condition, it shall not be used in the city until repaired and a
certificate of safety issued.
      (2)   Ice cream vehicles shall not be equipped with electronic sound
equipment. It shall be unlawful for any ice cream vehicle to be equipped with
mechanical sound equipment except equipment operated in such a fashion that it
emits an intermittent and not a continuous sound. In no event shall the sound
emitted exceed the levels in the city’s pollution control law. At any time
intermittent sound equipment is operational, the speed of the ice cream vehicle
shall not exceed 15 mph.
      (3)   Each ice cream vehicle shall have, on each side in letters readable
from a distance of 50 feet, the name of the licensee. Each ice cream vehicle
shall also have a driver’s identification card, including a picture of the
driver, prominently displayed so it is clearly visible to customers. If more
than one ice cream vehicle is operated by a licensee, each shall be designated
by a different number affixed to each side, in numerals readable from a
distance of 50 feet.
   (F)   Hours of operation. Ice cream products may be sold from a licensed ice
cream vehicle between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. or dusk, whichever
is earlier. All sales must be conducted from licensed ice cream vehicles that
have come to a full stop with sound equipment turned off at the curb line of
the street upon which the sales are being made.
   (G)   Prohibited streets. Ice cream sales shall be prohibited upon the
following streets within the city: State Route 176 (Telegraph Street), State
Route 20 (Grant Highway), State Route 23 (State Street) and Prospect Street.
   (H)   Insurance. No ice cream vehicle shall be operated unless it is covered
by a bond or general liability insurance policy with the city added as an
additional insured party and minimum limits of $1,000,000 individually and in
the aggregate. The licensee shall furnish a copy of such bond or insurance
policy prior to the issuance of a license.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 20-7-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Every violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $500 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 35.13) (Ord. 18-3-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: ADULT BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License
   
113.03   Application for license
   
113.04   Standards for issuance of license
   
113.05   Fees
   
113.06   Display of license
   
113.07   Renewal of license
   
113.08   Revocation of license
   
113.09   Employees
   
113.10   Physical layout of adult business
   
113.11   Responsibilities of the operator
   
113.12   Exclusions
   
113.13   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to, the following: adults only bookstores, adults only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, rap parlors, adults only nightclubs or
adults only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual
activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Synonymous with ADULT BUSINESS, as defined
herein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin-operated mechanisms which when
activated permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or, female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
same activity.
   ADULTS ONLY. Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether auto erotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS ONLY BOOKSTORE.
      (1)   An adults only establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on
premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their principal
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether auto erotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
      (2)   An establishment, having adults only items as a substantial or
significant portion of its stock, that sells or displays adults only items for
sale to patrons therein.
   ADULTS ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether auto erotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patron therein.
   ADULTS ONLY NIGHTCLUB. An establishment or place either occasionally or
primarily in the business of featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers, where
explicit sexual conduct is depicted an/or sexual activity is explicitly or
implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULTS ONLY SAUNA. An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing a steam bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct
is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
   BOOTH. Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
   CUBICLE. Synonymous with BOOTH, as defined herein.
   DOOR. Full, complete, non-transparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment serving food and/or liquor and providing music
and space for dancing by patrons only. A NIGHTCLUB shall not include an ADULT
BUSINESS.
   NUDITY. The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
   OBSCENE. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   OPERATOR. For purposes of an adult business, as defined herein, any person
(whether said persons be an individual, partner, corporation, joint stock
company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder, employee or administrator),
which conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
   PATRON. For purposes of an adult business, as defined herein, any customer,
patron or visitor to an adult business who is not employed by any operator of
said establishment.
   RAP PARLOR. An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
non-professional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
   ROOM. Synonymous with BOOTH, as defined herein.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY. Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person;
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
   SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Ultimate sex acts (whether auto erotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition,
physical contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or
the recipient, with a person’s unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
   UNDERAGE. Any person under 18 years of age, the legally minimum age at which
one can purchase or view adults only items.
   WALL SIGN. Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible.
(Prior Code, § 44.01) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 720 ILCS 5/11-20
§ 113.02 LICENSE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, from and after the effective
date of this chapter, no adult business shall be operated or maintained in the
city without first obtaining a license to operate issued by the city.
   (B)   A license may be issued only for one adult business located at a fixed
and certain place. Any person, partnership or corporation which desires to
operate more than one adult business must have a license for each.
   (C)   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any person,
partnership or corporation.
   (D)   All adult businesses existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter must submit an application for a license within 90 days of the passage
of this chapter. If an application is not received within said 90-day period,
then such existing adult business shall cease operations.
(Prior Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the Administrator. The application shall be filed in
triplicate with and dated by the Administrator. A copy of the application shall
be distributed promptly by the Administrator to the Police Department.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
Administrator. An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners or
limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all officers or directors of a
corporate applicant and all stockholders holding more than 5% of the stock of a
corporate applicant or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business, shall furnish the following information
under oath:
      (1)   Name and address, including all aliases;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past ten years;
      (4)   The applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
      (5)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for ten
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, city or state under an adult business license or similar business
license; whether the applicant has ever had such a license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor and the business entity or trade name under
which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or revocation;
      (7)   All criminal statutes, whether federal or state, or city ordinance
violation convictions, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere on
all charges, except minor traffic violations;
      (8)   Fingerprints and two portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches of the applicant;
      (9)   The address of the adult business establishment to be operated by
the applicant; and
      (10)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent.
   (C)   Within 21 days of receiving an application for a license, the
Administrator shall notify the applicant whether the application is granted or
denied.
   (D)   Whenever an application is denied, the Administrator shall advise the
applicant in writing of the reasons for such action. If the applicant requests
a hearing within ten days of receipt of notification of denial, a public
hearing shall be held within ten days thereafter before the City Council, as
hereinafter provided.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
said application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter, shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 44.03) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   To receive a license to operate an adult business, an applicant must
meet the following standards:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual:
         (a)   The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five years immediately preceding the date of the
application; and
         (c)   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter within five years immediately preceding the date of the
application.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named as
provided in §
113.03 shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under §
113.03 shall have been convicted of, pleaded no contest or stipulated to the
facts involving a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five
years immediately preceding the date of the application; and
         (c)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under §
113.03 shall have been found to have previously violated §
113.03 within five years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture or any other type
of organization where two or more persons have a financial interest:
         (a)   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of, pleaded no
contest or stipulated to the facts involving a felony or any crime involving
moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in
any jurisdiction within five years immediately preceding the date of the
application; and
         (c)   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this chapter within five years immediately preceding the date
of the application.
   (B)   No license shall be issued unless the Police Department has
investigated the qualifications of the applicant to be licensed. The results of
that investigation shall be filed in writing with the Administrator no later
than 14 days after the date of the application.
(Prior Code, § 44.04) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.05 FEES.
   A license fee of $250 shall be submitted with the application for a license.
If the application is denied, one-half of the fee shall be returned. License
fees paid less than 12 months prior to renewal shall not be prorated.
(Prior Code, § 44.05) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place in the adult
business such that it may be readily seen by a person entering the premises.
(Prior Code, § 44.06) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate on April
30 of each year unless sooner revoked, and must be renewed before operation is
allowed in the following year. Any operator desiring to renew a license shall
make application to the Administrator. The application for renewal must be
filed no later than 60 days before the license expires. The application for
renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and dated by the Administrator. A
copy of the application for renewal shall be distributed promptly by the
Administrator to the Police Department and to the operator. The application for
renewal shall be upon a form provided by the Administrator and shall contain
such information and data, given under oath or affirmation, as is required for
an application for a new license.
   (B)   A license renewal fee of $250 shall be submitted with the application
for renewal. In addition to the renewal fee, a late penalty of $100 shall be
assessed against the applicant who files for a renewal less than 60 days before
the license expires. If the application is denied, one-half of the total fees
collected shall be returned.
   (C)   If the Police Department is aware of any information bearing on the
operator’s qualifications, that information shall be filed in writing with the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 44.07) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council shall revoke a license for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given on
any application or material facts were omitted from any application;
      (2)   The operator or any employee of the operator, violates any
provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the city
pursuant to this chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first
offense by an operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the City Council shall find
that the operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not by the exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive
knowledge;
      (3)   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license;
      (4)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid;
      (5)   Any alcoholic liquor is served or consumed on the premises of the
adult business;
      (6)   Violation of any city ordinance, code or regulation and failure to
pay the required fine or penalty or failure to cure the violations; and
      (7)   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license.
   (B)   The City Council, before revoking or suspending any license, shall
give the operator at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him
or her, and the opportunity for a public hearing before the City Council.
   (C)   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for one year from the date of revocation. No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult business for six
months from the date of revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 44.08) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.09 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult business licensee or his or her
administrator or employee to employ in any capacity within the adult business
any person who is not at least 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 44.09) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF ADULT BUSINESS.
   (A)   Any adult business having available for customers, patrons or members,
any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult entertainment
must comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Access. Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to
and from aisles and public areas of the adult business, and shall be
unobstructed by any door, lock or other control type devices.
      (2)   Construction. Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet the following
construction requirements.
         (a)   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any non-public areas by a wall.
         (b)   Have at least one side totally open to a public lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same.
         (c)   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than six feet and be light colored, non-
absorbent, smooth textured and easily cleanable.
         (d)   The floor must be light colored, non-absorbent, smooth textured
and easily cleanable.
         (e)   The lighting level of each booth, room or cubicle, when not in
use shall be a minimum of ten foot-candles at all times, as measured from the
floor.
      (3)   Occupants. Only one individual shall occupy a booth, room or
cubicle at any time. No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual
activity, cause any bodily discharge or litter while in the booth. No
individual shall damage or deface any portion of the booth.
   (B)   Any adult business, as defined herein, which features dancers or other
entertainers or forms of entertainment, must comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   All dancing or other entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of
the floor.
      (2)   No dancing or other entertainment shall occur closer than ten feet
to any patron.
      (3)   No dancer or other entertainer shall fondle or caress any patron,
and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or other entertainer.
      (4)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity or tip to any
dancer or other entertainer and no dancer or other entertainer shall directly
or indirectly solicit any pay or gratuity or tip from any patron.
(Prior Code, § 44.10) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR.
   (A)   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, showing the
name and aliases used by the employee, home address, age, birth date, sex,
height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers, Social Security number,
date of employment and termination and duties of each employee. The above
information on each employee shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of three years following termination.
   (B)   The operator shall make the register of employees available
immediately for inspection upon demand of a member of the Police Department at
all reasonable times.
   (C)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to
supervise the employee’s conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
caused the omission.
   (D)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining whether the operator’s license shall be revoked,
suspended or renewed.
   (E)   No employee of an adult business shall allow any minor to loiter
around or to frequent an adult business.
   (F)   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary
manner at all times.
   (G)   The operator shall maintain at least ten foot-candles of light in the
public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all times. However,
if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to enable a
patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth, room or cubicle adjoining an
aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be maintained in such aisles,
provided, however, at no time shall there be less than one foot-candle of
illumination in said aisles, as measured from the floor.
   (H)   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 44.11) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 EXCLUSIONS.
   All private schools and public schools, as defined in the state statutes,
located within the city are exempt from obtaining a license hereunder when
instructing pupils in sex education as part of their curriculum.
(Prior Code, § 44.12) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall have the authority to enter any adult business
at all reasonable times to inspect the premises and enforce this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 44.14) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who is found to have violated
this chapter shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $1,000 per offense
plus costs of prosecution incurred by the city, including reasonable attorneys’
fees, and shall result in the revocation of any license.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one day shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 44.13) (Ord. 02-8-4, passed 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 114: SCAVENGERS, RECYCLABLES AND REFUSE
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application for license
   
114.04   License fee; term
   
114.05   Collection of recyclables
   
114.06   Conditions of license
   
114.07   License revocation
   
114.08   Duties of customers
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SCAVENGER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint stock company,
joint venture, public or private corporation conducting any of the enumerated
activities of collection and disposal of waste materials for set fees or
payments.
(Prior Code, § 13.01)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of scavenger
or the collection or disposal of residential, commercial or industrial garbage,
refuse or waste without having first obtained a scavenger license from the
city.
(Prior Code, § 13.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Application for a scavenger license shall be made to the
city and referred to the City Council. A scavenger license shall be issued upon
order of the City Council.
   (B)   Application requirements. The following information shall be submitted
with the application:
      (1)   Applicant’s residential and business name and address and the names
and addresses of its owners and officers;
      (2)   The location of the disposal facilities to be used by the licensee.
This location shall be a site approved by the IEPA or its successor;
      (3)   The location where scavenger vehicles will be parked when not in
use; and
      (4)   Certificates of insurance to be issued by a company approved by the
city and which is authorized to issue insurance in the state, showing that the
applicant has public liability insurance of not less than $1,000,000 covering
the business activities within the city. The licensee shalt also have insurance
coverage on motor vehicles and property damage in an amount acceptable to the
city. The certificate shall show the date of expiration, which shall not expire
during the term of the scavenger license. Upon cancellation or expiration
without renewal of the insurance, a city issued scavenger license shall be
void.
(Prior Code, § 13.03)
§ 114.04 LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   The annual license fee for residential and commercial scavenging shall be
$350. The license period shall be from May 1 to the following April 30.
(Prior Code, § 13.04) (Ord. 01-2-6, passed - -)
§ 114.05 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   Pickup requirements. It shall be a prerequisite to obtaining a
scavenger license that the applicant agrees to pick up and deliver to an
appropriate recycling facility the following recyclable materials: aluminum,
corrugated cardboard, glass bottles and containers, newsprint and plastic milk
containers. In addition, the licensed scavenger shall pick up and deliver to an
appropriate facility branches, tree cuttings, leaves and lawn rakings.
   (B)   Nonprofit organizations. Upon approval by the City Council, any not-
for-profit organization or tax exempt charitable institution may pick up one or
more of the categories of recyclable materials. However, City Council approval
will be conditioned upon the activity’s impact on the business of licensed
scavengers within the city; the City Council may impose restrictions it deems
reasonable, including times and dates, of said approval.
(Prior Code, § 13.05)
§ 114.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Vehicles.
      (1)   Spilling loads. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
controlling any vehicle for the purpose of carrying, carting, hauling or
transporting garbage, refuse, waste or recyclables to cause any of the
substances to dump, fall, scatter, spill or leak on any public way or other
place. The scavenger shall use exclusively enclosed leakproof packer type
disposal truck bodies for the collection of all residential, commercial and
industrial garbage. For the collection or all other refuse and rubbish, the
scavenger shall have equipment to be used when necessary, tarpaulins or
substantial tight covers designed to prevent the scattering of the refuse and
rubbish from the container or truck.
      (2)   Cleanliness of vehicles. All scavenger vehicles shall be cleaned
and disinfected when not in use so that the vehicles do not become offensive or
in violation of federal, state or local laws.
   (B)   Parking; temporary storage of waste. Except in an emergency, it shall
be unlawful to park a scavenger truck containing any garbage, refuse or other
waste overnight, or for an unnecessary length of time during daylight hours
within the city limits. In the event the contents of a storage container
becomes frozen and unmovable, it shall be permissible to store said container
in an enclosed building up to 48 hours. The scavenger must notify the
Superintendent of Streets and Chief of Police immediately of any emergency.
   (C)   Residential pickup hours. Except in an emergency, residential pickup
shall be limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Monday through
Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 13.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   In the event a licensed scavenger firm violates any provisions of this
chapter or any federal, state or local laws, the city shall have the right, in
addition to enforcing criminal penalties against the firm, to revoke the
scavenger license. In such case, no consideration for a refund in part or whole
of the license fee shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 13.07)
§ 114.08 DUTIES OF CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Location for pick-up. All refuse, compostable yard waste and
recyclable material shall be placed immediately behind the curbside. When a
conflict arises concerning a specific location the city shall have the
exclusive right to determine the final pickup point for the property in
question.
   (B)   Preparing materials. It is the responsibility of the customer to
properly bag, bundle and tag all refuse, recyclables and compostable yard
waste.
   (C)   Receptacles required. It shall be the duty of every owner, or his or
her agent, or the occupant of any house, dwelling or other building in the city
wherein people reside or lodge, or where animal or vegetable food is prepared
or served, and at all times, to maintain in good order and repair a separate
receptacle to be used for the purpose of depositing garbage and other similar
refuse. Such receptacle shall be watertight, made or constructed of metal or
plastic and shall be equipped with a close fitting cover.
   (D)   Deposit on streets and property. It shall be unlawful for any person
to deposit garbage or other similar refuse in any street, alley or public way.
It shall be unlawful tor any person to deposit garbage or other similar refuse
upon any private property, unless such garbage or other similar refuse shall be
placed in a receptacle as hereinabove described, and it shall be unlawful to
place such receptacle upon any street, alley or public way.
   (E)   Littering. It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or
locate garbage or other similar refuse in any manner so that the same could be
blown about or scattered by wind or accessible to animals.
   (F)   Burning. It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be
burned any garbage or similar refuse within the corporate limits of the city.
   (G)   Storage of receptacles. The storage of receptacles shall be in such a
manner so as to be no closer to the streets or public ways than the building
setback lines as required in Chapter 158.
(Prior Code, § 13.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Application
   
115.04   Disposition of fees
   
115.05   Application requirements
   
115.06   Term, prorating fees
   
115.07   License classification and fees; approval authority; limitation on
number of licenses
   
115.08   Records
   
115.09   Death, transfer or bankruptcy of licensee
Licensed Premises
   
115.20   Change of location
   
115.21   Change of ownership
   
115.22   Abandonment
   
115.23   Renewal of license
   
115.24   Mandatory meeting, list of owners, managers and employees
   
115.25   Displaying license
   
115.26   Restrictions upon sound amplification
   
115.27   Sanitary conditions
   
115.28   Employee restrictions
   
115.29   Location restrictions, notification
   
115.30   Premises
   
115.31   Books and records of licensee
   
115.32   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
115.33   Closing hours
   
115.34   Consumption on premises, drinking on public streets
Prohibited Acts and Conditions
   
115.45   Peddling
   
115.46   Purchase or acceptance of gifts of liquor by persons under the age of
21; identification cards; exceptions
   
115.47   Sale to persons under 21 years of age
   
115.48   Sale or use of false evidence of age and identity
   
115.49   Sales to intoxicated persons, habitual drunkards, spendthrifts and
mental incompetence
   
115.50   Gatherings where one or more persons are under the age of 21 years
   
115.51   Alcoholic beverages in adult businesses prohibited
   
115.52   Gambling, video gaming terminals
Administration and Enforcement
   
115.65   Inspections and enforcement
   
115.66   License revocation authorized
   
115.67   Revocation, suspension or fine
   
115.68   Compliance check procedures concerning alcohol/tobacco retailers
   
115.69   BASSET program
 
   
115.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   LIQUOR COMMISSION. The Local Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license, or in
violation of the terms of such license.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION.
   Applications for such license shall be made to the Commissioner in writing,
signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof if a group or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall be
addressed to the Mayor and City Council, and shall further contain a statement
and information as found in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 115.04 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   All license fees shall be paid to the Commissioner at the time the
application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer.
   (B)   If the license applied for is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, the fee shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as designated by
the City Council.
   (C)   License fees are separate and apart from the application fee required
pursuant to §
115.05(F).
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 08-5-4, passed - -)
§ 115.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Contents of application. Application for a liquor license shall be
filed with the Commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant if an
individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a club, corporation or
other legally recognized entity, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain full and complete responses to the requested statements and information
which shall be immediately updated if any of said statements or information
changes during the term of any license. In the event the applicant is a
corporation, limited liability company, general partnership or limited
partnership, said application shall be signed by any member, officer, manager,
director, partner (silent and limited) or stockholder owning more than 5%
interest in the corporation, limited liability company, general partnership or
limited partnership, as the case may be. Each applicant must submit acceptable
proof of ownership when the applicant is the property owner of the premises, or
a copy of a fully executed lease of premises when the applicant is not the
property owner of the premises for which he or she is seeking a license. Such
lease must have coverage period equal to, or longer than, the duration of the
applicant’s liquor license. Said lease must name the applicant as lessee.
Applications shall contain the following information and statements:
      (1)   The name, birth date, Social Security number and address of the
applicant in the case of an individual; in the case of a partnership, the name,
birth date and Social Security number of each partner owning more than 5%
interest and a copy of the partnership agreement; and, in the case of a
corporation or other legally recognized entity, the articles of organization,
the names, birth date, Social Security number and address of the officers,
directors and/or members owning 5% or more interest in the corporation;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant;
      (4)   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   The location and legal description of the premises or place of
business which is to be operated under such license. Each application shall
contain a diagram of the premises which depicts the location of any service
bars and the location of one designated dancing area;
      (7)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
      (8)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this section, laws of this state or the ordinances, rules or
resolutions of the city;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons thereof; and
      (10)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state, or of the United States, or any ordinance, rule or resolution of the
city in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (B)   Investigation of applicant. No license shall be issued hereunder until
the applicant shall have been investigated by the Liquor Commission and a
report filed in the records of said Commission approving the issuance of such
license. As a part of this investigation, the Liquor Commission shall have the
right to require fingerprints of all new and renewal applicants. For purposes
of obtaining fingerprints under this section, the Liquor Commission shall
collect a fee in the amount specified on the application and forward the fee to
the Police Department. A copy of fingerprints shall be held on record by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee. In addition, the applicant shall sign a
release authorizing the Police Department to conduct a criminal background
check.
   (C)   Amendments. Any and all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to any and all changes or amendments which may be hereafter made,
and any and all rules adopted by the Commissioner or Liquor Commission. Any and
all licenses shall be subject to any restrictions or conditions deemed
desirable by the Liquor Commission or the Commissioner.
   (D)   Insurance.
      (1)   No license shall be issued to any person or entity that cannot
produce a policy of insurance by a solvent and responsible company authorized
to do business in the state insuring said person or entity against liability
for any injury or death which said parties may incur while operating under the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as follows:
$500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury liability;
$100,000 for loss of means of support; $100,000 for property damage liability;
or a $1,000,000 single limit dram shop policy.
      (2)   No license shall be issued to any person or entity that cannot
produce a policy of insurance by a solvent and responsible company authorized
to do business in the state insuring said person or entity against general
liability in the amount of $500,000.
      (3)   The city shall be named on the licensee’s liquor liability
insurance as an additional insured. Said policy cannot be cancelled without
first giving the city 30 days’ prior written notice of said cancellation.
   (E)   Liquor liability insurance. Each applicant shall show, by evidence
satisfactory to the Liquor Commissioner, the issuance of a policy of the
appropriate liquor liability insurance. In the event of cancellation, the
Liquor Commissioner shall be notified immediately of such cancellation.
   (F)   Application fee. A non-refundable application fee in the amount of
$500 shall be payable upon the initial application for liquor license
classifications A, B and C. No initial application fee shall be required from
liquor classification D. The renewal of liquor licenses as provided in §
115.23 shall not be subject to this application fee.
   (G)   State liquor license. At the time a license is approved, the city will
provide a copy of the license to the licensee. The original city license will
be issued when the licensee provides a copy of the license issued by the State
Liquor Control Commission.
   (H)   Outstanding debts. An applicant or holder of a liquor licenses shall
not be indebted to the city. Any indebtedness in excess of 30 days shall
constitute the basis for the denial and/or revocation of a liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 06-1-3, passed - -; Ord. 07-2-1, passed - -; Ord.
08-5-4, passed - -; Ord. 10-6-3, passed - -; Ord. 12-5-5, passed - -; Ord. 16-
5-3, passed - -; Ord. 16-9-2, passed - -; Ord. 25-7-2, passed 7-28-2025)
Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 TERM, PRORATING FEES.
   (A)   A license is purely a personal privilege and, except for daily
permits, shall expire one year from the date of issuance. The one-year period
shall be from May 1 of each year to April 30 of each following year, unless
sooner revoked or suspended. The fee for licenses issued after May 1 of any
year will be prorated.
   (B)   The fee for licenses issued after May 1 but before September 1 of any
year shall pay the full amount, licenses issued after September 1 but before
January 1 of any year shall pay two-thirds of the full amount, and licenses
issued after January 1 but before May 1 of any year shall pay one-third of the
full amount.
   (C)   All licenses, regardless of the date of issuance, shall terminate on
April 30 of each year following the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 11-11-1, passed - -)
§ 115.07 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION AND FEES; APPROVAL AUTHORITY; LIMITATION ON
NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses. Licenses required by this chapter shall be divided into the
following classes. The approval and authority to issue liquor licenses is the
responsibility of the Liquor Control Commissioner with the approval of the City
Council. The Liquor Control Commissioner or appointed designee may issue Class
D “Special Event” licenses without prior Council approval when the license does
not involve the use of additional city services or public property. Upon
approval by the City Council of an increase in liquor licenses, the City Clerk
is hereby directed to amend this section to increase the number of liquor
licenses accordingly. Any time a license is revoked or voluntarily surrendered,
the maximum number of authorized licenses of that class will reduce by one, and
the City Clerk is hereby directed to amend this section to reflect that
reduction.
      (1)   Class A (“Full Bar”) license. Issuance of a Class A license shall
authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on premises and the
retail sale of packaged liquor, where alcohol is the primary sale, and accounts
for more than 51% of sales. For the purpose of this division (A)(1), the term
SALES  shall not include revenue from gaming activity. The annual fee for such
licenses shall be $1,750.
      (2)   Class B (“Table Service”) license. Issuance of a Class B license
shall authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises
only, as an incidental part of food service. Food sales must account for more
than 51% of sales. The annual fee for a Class B license shall be $1,500. A
Class B licensee shall be eligible to apply for a catering endorsement for an
additional fee of $500, which shall permit the service of alcoholic liquor for
off-site consumption as an incidental part of food service, sold at a package
price, as agreed upon under contract.
      (3)   Class C (“Packaged Retail”) license. Issuance of a Class C license
shall authorize the retail sale of packaged alcoholic liquor only. No
consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be permitted on the premises. The annual
fee for a Class C license shall be $1,500.
      (4)   Class D (“Special Event”) license. Issuance of a Class D license
shall only authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises during a designated special event to any not-for-profit organization
or club, such as a church, order or lodge, veteran’s organization or other
civic organization, business or local liquor license holders in good standing.
No such license shall be issued for a license period in excess of four days nor
shall any private premises be eligible for more than four such licenses during
any calendar year. The Commissioner reserves the right to limit the sale of
liquor to particular times during the day of the permit. The fee for such
license shall be $50 per day for current license holders and $300 per day for
non-license holders.
         (a)   The following information shall be submitted regarding the
event:
            1.   Date, time and location of the event;
            2.   Type of alcohol to be served, which cannot exceed the type of
alcohol a licensee already sells pursuant to its license;
            3.   Description of the security measures to be utilized for both
liquor service and the event;
            4.   Description of the area in which alcoholic liquor will be
available for service and consumption; and
            5.   Sales and delivery of alcohol liquor shall be conducted
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter, the State Liquor Control Act,
being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., and the State Liquor Control Commission Rules and
Regulations, being I.A.C. Title 11, Subtitle A.
         (b)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, all requirements of this
chapter shall apply to permits granted under this section, including insurance
requirements in §
115.05(D) and (E). To the extent that any such event may take place on public
property and outside of the licensed premises, the applicant shall name the
city as an additional insured and provide the city with the appropriate
insurance endorsement.
         (c)   Application for a daily permit must be submitted a minimum of 30
days in advance of the event.
      (5)   Class E license. A Class E Liquor License shall permit the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor, wine and beer for consumption only on the registered
premises to a business offering classes such as art, crafting, painting,
scrapbooking and the like and shows. The sale of alcoholic liquor, wine and
beer are to be sold only to patrons assembled on the premises for the purpose
of attending classes and shows. The service of alcoholic liquor, wine and beer
are to be sold and consumed only during times that classes and shows are
scheduled. No window or any other signage visible from outside the
establishment shall be permitted on the premises or the surrounding property
that indicates that alcoholic liquor, wine or beer is available for sale on
premises. Class E licenses shall not be allowed to apply or receive video
gaming endorsement. (No Gaming) Yearly Fee: $500
   (B)   Consumption permits. Consumption permits required by this chapter
shall be divided into the following classes. The approval and authority to
issue consumption permits is the responsibility of the Liquor Control
Commissioner with the approval of the City Council. Upon approval by the City
Council of an increase in consumption permits, the City Clerk is hereby
directed to amend this section to increase the number of consumption permits
accordingly. Any time a consumption permit is revoked or voluntarily
surrendered, the maximum number of authorized consumption permits of that class
will reduce by one, and the City Clerk is hereby directed to amend this section
to reflect that reduction.
      (1)   Bring Your Own Bottle (“BYOB”) permit.
         (a)   Issuance of a bring your own bottle permit shall allow a
customer to bring unopened/sealed beer or wine only, to be consumed on premises
only as a compliment to classes such as art, crafting, painting, scrapbooking
and shows of the aforementioned nature. No permit holder, agent, staff or
employee may open or pour the beer or wine. No on-site storage of beer or wine
is permitted. The permit holder is permitted to provide glasses and other
amenities for the consumption of beer and wine only. A certificate of insurance
naming the city as certificate holder and additional insured in the amount of
$500,000 per person and $1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury liability;
$100,000 for loss of means of support; and $100,000 for property damage
liability. The annual fee for a BYOB permit shall be $200.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to allow the consumption of alcoholic
liquor in any business premises in the city except as set forth in §
115.02 and this division (B)(1)(b). A BYOB permit shall have the same
requirements as set forth in this chapter for a liquor license, including, but
not limited to, revocation, suspension and fine, except:
            1.   A non-refundable application fee in the amount of $500 shall
be payable upon the initial application for a BYOB permit;
            2.   No State Liquor Control Commission license is required; and
            3.   At least one person who has completed the BASSET program shall
be required to be present on the permitted premises during hours when alcoholic
liquor may be consumed.
      (2)   Class Z (“On-Site Consumption”) permit.
         (a)   Issuance of a Class Z permit shall allow a customer to bring
alcoholic beverages, purchased from an adjoining premises (with no alcoholic
liquor crossing any city streets, sidewalks or alleys) holding a Class A
license or Class B license from the city, into the permitted premises of a
restaurant for on-site consumption only as a compliment to food. For the
purposes of this Class Z permit, a restaurant must derive more than 75% of its
gross revenue (on an annual basis) from the sale of food. The records used to
determine whether said 75% standard has been met shall include, but not be
limited to, audited financial statements, corporate financial reports, tax
return information or any other form deemed acceptable by the city. No Class Z
permit holder, agent, staff or employee may open or pour alcoholic beverages.
No on-site storage of alcohol is permitted. The annual fee for a Class Z permit
shall be $200.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to allow the consumption of alcoholic
liquor in any business premises in the city except as set forth in §
115.02 and this division (B)(2)(b). A Class Z permit shall have the same
requirements as set forth in this chapter for a liquor license, including, but
not limited to, revocation, suspension and fine, except:
            1.   A non-refundable application fee in the amount of $500 shall
be payable upon the initial application for a Class Z permit;
            2.   No State Liquor Control Commission license is required; and
            3.   At least one person who has completed the BASSET program shall
be required to be present on the permitted premises during hours when alcoholic
liquor may be consumed.
   (C)   Number of licenses and permits issued.
      (1)   Licenses issued. There shall be issued in the city not more than:
 
Class A 12 licenses
Class B 7 licenses
Class C 6 licenses
Class E 0 licenses
 
      (2)   Permits issued. There shall be issued in the city not more than:
 
Class BYOB 1 permit
Class Z    2 permits
 
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 19-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 19-3-3, passed - -; Ord.
19-6-1, passed - -; Ord. 20-8-1, passed - -; Ord. 20-12-4, passed - -; Ord. 22-
6-6, passed - -; Ord. 22-7-2, passed - -; Ord. 22-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 25-4-
1, passed 4-14-2025; Ord. 25-10-01, passed 10-13-2025; Ord. 25-11-1, passed 11-
24-2025) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Commissioner shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued,
and shall furnish the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police each with a copy
thereof.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of any new license, or the suspension or revocation
of any old license, the Commissioner shall give written notice of such action
to each of these officers.
(Prior Code, § 33.08)
§ 115.09 DEATH, TRANSFER OR BANKRUPTCY OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, not to exceed one year
after issuance unless revoked sooner, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated.
   (B)   Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not
descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, provided that the
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture
of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankruptcy, until the expiration of
such license, but not longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee.
   (C)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any
period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 33.09)
**** LICENSED PREMISES ****
§ 115.20 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the
premises described in the application and license. Such location may be changed
only upon the receipt of written permission from the Commissioner.
   (B)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is in compliance with provisions and regulations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 115.21 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   A liquor license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall be valid for
the time specified therein, unless sooner revoked or suspended and shall not
constitute property nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily or subject to be encumbered or hypothecated.
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 115.22 ABANDONMENT.
   If the licensee to which a license has been issued discontinues operations
at the premises described in the application and license for 90 consecutive
days, or whenever there is evidence of a clear intent of the licensee to
abandon the premises, said license shall be subject to revocation.
(Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 115.23 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her liquor license at the expiration thereof,
provided that he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises
for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose;
provided further, that the renewal privilege herein shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the reduction of the number of
licenses to be issued within the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 115.24 MANDATORY MEETING, LIST OF OWNERS, MANAGERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Mandatory licensee meeting. All liquor license holders or their
representatives shall be required to attend a mandatory meeting hosted by the
Commissioner in March of each year to discuss changes in this chapter,
identify/address issues and concerns and provide for open communication between
the licensees and Commissioner. The city will provide notice of the date, time
and location for this meeting no less than 14 days in advance. Failure to
attend the mandatory meeting could result in the revocation of the renewal
privileges upon the expiration of the liquor license.
   (B)   Listing of owners, managers and employees. All licensees shall by May
1 of each year submit to the City Police Department a listing of all owners and
managers of the licensed premises, as well as a list of any and all employees
who prepare, dispense, sell or serve alcoholic beverages at the licensed
premises. The listing shall include the names, home addresses, dates of birth
and indicate whether they have received BASSET training. The licensee shall
have ten days in which to update this listing with new managers or employees
once they have been hired.
(Prior Code, § 33.14) (Ord. 06-1-3, passed - -; Ord. 09-5-4, passed - -)
§ 115.25 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license or licenses to be framed and
hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 33.15) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26 RESTRICTIONS UPON SOUND AMPLIFICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any noise or sound
to be amplified outside the bounds of a structure on the premises if a
residence is within 500 feet of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 33.16) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.27 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for sale, shall be kept in full compliance with the laws
and ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 115.28 EMPLOYEE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to permit any person under the age
of 21 years to dispense, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor, or in any way
tend bar. This shall not prevent persons 18 years of age and over, as
employees, from delivering alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
Employees selling, delivering, checking out or receiving payment for packaged
alcoholic liquors must be 21 years of age or older.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparing or
distributing of such liquor.
(Prior Code, § 33.18) (Ord. 09-5-4, passed - -; Ord. 19-11-1, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.29 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS, NOTIFICATION.
   Except as provided herein, no liquor license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital,
undertaking establishment or mortuary, home for the aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station. This
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale
of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on at the place of
business. Notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary, the
City Local Liquor Control Commission may, in his or her discretion, based on
the circumstances, grant an exemption to the prohibition in this section.
(Prior Code, § 33.19) (Ord. 08-5-4, passed - -; Ord. 09-9-1, passed - -; Ord.
18-9-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.30 PREMISES.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public. This provision shall not prohibit any connection between such
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family and personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 BOOKS AND RECORDS OF LICENSEE.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the State Liquor Control Commission or any Commissioner having jurisdiction
over the licensee. Such books and records need not be maintained on the
licensed premises, but must be maintained in the state. However, all original
invoices covering purchases of alcoholic liquor must be retained on the
licensed premises for a period of 90 days after such purchase.
(Prior Code, § 33.21)
§ 115.32 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are persons under the age of 21 or where the principal business
transacted consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks
for such persons.
(Prior Code, § 33.22)
§ 115.33 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Hours generally. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at
retail, or to give away, in or upon any licensed premises, any alcoholic
liquor:
      (1)   Between the hours of 1:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Monday through Friday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   Sunday hours. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at
retail, or to give away, in or upon any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:30 a.m. on Sunday.
   (C)   Holidays. On the eve of New Year’s Day, Memorial Day (observed),
Independence Day (Fourth of July), Labor Day and Thanksgiving Day, it shall be
lawful to sell alcoholic liquor in the city until 2:00 a.m. in licensed
premises.
   (D)   Daylight saving time. The hours stated herein shall be Central
Standard Time when daylight saving time is in effect, and then said hours shall
be Central Daylight Saving Time.
   (E)   Businesses. It shall be unlawful to keep open for business, to admit
the public to, to permit the public to remain within or to permit the
consumption of alcoholic liquor in, or upon, any premises in, or on, which
alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours within which the sale of
such liquor is prohibited; provided, that in the case of restaurants and clubs,
such establishments may be kept open, but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or
consumed by the public during the hours prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. 04-8-4, passed - -; Ord. 08-5-4, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES, DRINKING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Consumption on premises. It shall be unlawful for anyone having a
Class C license to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises where sold, or to permit the same to be consumed on the
premises where sold.
   (B)   Drinking on public streets. No person shall openly drink or furnish to
others any alcoholic liquor to be drunk upon any street, public place or vacant
lot within the city, and no person shall connive at or assist in or procure
others to violate any provision of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) Penalty, see §
115.99
**** PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS ****
§ 115.45 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.46 PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF
21; IDENTIFICATION CARDS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Purchase or acceptance. It shall be a violation of this section for
any person under the age of 21 to purchase, obtain, accept deliver of, accept a
gift of, consume or have in his or her possession alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   Warning placard. In every place in the city where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times, in a prominent place, a printed
card, which shall be supplied by the Clerk, and which shall read substantially
as follows.
 
   Warning to Persons Under 21 Years of Age
 
   You are subject to a fine up to $500 under the Liquor Control Ordinance of
the City of Marengo if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
 
   (C)   Exemptions. The possession and dispensing or consumption of alcoholic
liquor by a person under 21 years of age in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under 21 years of age under
the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent of such minor in
the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.47 SALE TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   Sale by licensee. It shall be a violation of this section for the
licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
of such licensee, to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
the age of 21 years.
   (B)   Sale by other persons. It shall be a violation of this section for any
person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, to sell, give
or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years,
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (C)   Proof of identity and age. To prevent the violation of this section,
any licensee, or his or her officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to any person who
is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and of the fact that
he or she is over the age of 21 years. Adequate written evidence of age and
identity of the person is a document issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s license, a registration certificate
issued under the Federal Selective Service Act, being Pub. Law No. 65-12, or an
identification card issued to member of the Armed Forces.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.48 SALE OR USE OF FALSE EVIDENCE OF AGE AND IDENTITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, give
or furnish to any person under the age of 21 years any false or fraudulent
written, printed or photostatic evidence of the age and/or identity of such
person or to sell, give or furnish to any person under the age of 21 years
evidence of age and/or identification of any other person.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the age
of 21 to present or offer to any licensee, his or her agent or employee, any
written, printed or photostatic evidence of age and/or identity which is false,
fraudulent or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise procuring or attempting to
procure, the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or who has in his or her
possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and/or identity.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.49 SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS, SPENDTHRIFTS AND
MENTAL INCOMPETENCE.
   (A)   No licensee, or any officer, associate, member, representative or
agent or employee of the licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him or her to be an
habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, feebleminded or distracted, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment.
   (B)   No licensee, or agent or employee of the licensee, shall harbor or
permit any intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises described in the
license or permit any conduct which shall tend to disturb the peace or quiet or
the neighborhood or the premises.
(Prior Code, § 33.29) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.50 GATHERINGS WHERE ONE OR MORE PERSONS ARE UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to knowingly
permit a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of two or more
persons where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of age and the
following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person or persons
under the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming an alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 33.31) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.51 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN ADULT BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Adult business prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
maintaining, owning or operating a commercial establishment located within the
city at which alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, to permit or allow the following activity to be conducted on the
premises of such a commercial establishment, all of which activity is defined
in Chapter 113:
      (1)   Adult business;
      (2)   Adult entertainment center;
      (3)   Adults only activity, bookstore, motion picture theater, nightclub,
sauna;
      (4)   Nudity;
      (5)   Obscene activity;
      (6)   Rap parlor;
      (7)   Sadomasochistic activity; or
      (8)   Sexual conduct activity.
   (B)   Beer, alcoholic beverages prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
establishment defined as an adult business pursuant to
Chapter 158 to sell, distribute or permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 33.34) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.52 GAMBLING, VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS.
   (A)   No gambling of any sort shall be permitted in the city except as
authorized by this section.
   (B)   Video gaming terminals shall be permitted in and upon the premises
used or occupied as a place where alcoholic liquor is sold or given away if
each of the following conditions is first met:
      (1)   The use and placement thereof is in compliance with the provisions
of the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.), as amended;
      (2)   The use and placement thereof is in compliance with the provisions
of all rules promulgated by the State Gaming Board pursuant to the State
Administrative Procedures Act, being 5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.; and
      (3)   The licensee or agent of the licensee:
         (a)   Files with the City Clerk a copy of the licensee’s written use
agreement with the terminal operator for placement of the video gaming
terminals and a copy of the license issued by the State Gaming Board; and
         (b)   Pays to the city an annual fee of $250 for each video gaming
terminal upon the premises.
   (C)   No video gaming terminal that is permitted under the provisions of
this section may be played except during the legal hours of operation allowed
for the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
   (D)   If a licensee violates any provision of the Video Gaming Act, or rules
and regulations of the State Gaming Board or any provision related to video
gaming terminals contained in this section, such violation shall be deemed a
violation of the licensee’s liquor license.
(Prior Code, § 33.38) (Ord. 12-5-3, passed - -; Ord. 23-01-1, passed 1-9-2023)
Penalty, see §
115.99
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 115.65 INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any law enforcing officer of the city may enter at any time upon any
premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions of this
chapter or whether any of the rules or regulations adopted by the Mayor and
City Council or by the state have been or are being violated and at such time
may examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
   (B)   Any law enforcing officer of the city may receive complaint from any
citizen within the jurisdiction of the city that any of the provisions of this
chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the Mayor and City Council or by
the state have been or are being violated, and may act upon such complaints in
the manner provided.
   (C)   The Commissioner shall have the authority to make and establish rules
and regulations of procedure concerning notice of hearings and all such other
matters as may from time to time be necessary, and to appoint deputy
Commissioners to the Liquor Commission.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to refuse to grant admittance
to the premises for which a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal
request of any police officer or any other legally authorized person.
(Prior Code, § 33.30) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.66 LICENSE REVOCATION AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   No person holding a city license shall, in the conduct of the licenses
business or upon the licensed premises, either directly or through the agents
or employees of the licensee:
      (1)   Violate or permit a violation of any federal law or state statute
related to the control of liquor;
      (2)   Violate or permit a violation of any city ordinance or resolution
regulating the sale of alcoholic liquor or relating to the eligibility of the
licensee to hold a liquor license;
      (3)   Violate or permit a violation of any rule or regulation of the
State Liquor Control Commission as amended from time to time;
      (4)   Permit the sale and/or consumption of any alcoholic beverages
outdoors absent a specific permit issued by the city;
      (5)   Allow fighting, disorderly conduct or excessive noise constituting
a nuisance to take place on the licensed premises or on, about and/or adjacent
to the property where the licensed premises are located;
      (6)   Allow patrons to serve or distribute alcoholic beverages to minors
on the licensed premises or allow minors to drink alcoholic beverages on the
licensed premises;
      (7)   Fail to call the City Police Department upon the violation of any
city ordinance or state law relating to fighting, disorderly conduct or
excessive noise constituting a nuisance on the licensed premises;
      (8)   Submit to the city a liquor license application containing a false
or misleading statement; and
      (9)   Violate or permit a violation of any federal, state or local law,
regulation or ordinance related to video gaming.
   (B)   Proof before the Commissioner of the facts which establish a violation
of any federal law, state statute, city ordinance or resolution or rule of the
State Liquor Control Commission or the State Gaming Board shall be sufficient
cause for revocation, suspension and fine of any liquor licensee, irrespective
of whether or not a conviction has been obtained in any court. In addition, the
licensee shall be obligated to reimburse the city for all attorneys’ fees
incurred as a result of the prosecution of the offending licensee.
   (C)   Pursuant to Res. 00-8-C passed by the City Council, and pursuant to
235 ILCS 5/7-9, all appeals from the decision of the Commissioner shall be
limited to a review of the official record of proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 33.32) (Ord. 12-5-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.67 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FINE.
   (A)   Revocation. Licenses granted hereunder may be revoked by the
Commissioner for the violation of any part or portion of this chapter, or of
the Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., or of any valid
resolution or ordinance enacted by the city, or of any applicable rule or
regulation established by the Commissioner or any violation of the Criminal
Code, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., which occurs on the licensed premises or
any violation of the Criminal Code which occurs off the licensed premises where
said violation involves or relates to the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises. Licenses granted hereunder may be revoked
upon the conviction of licensee under the Criminal Code. Should any applicant
for license make a false or fraudulent statement in such application, the same
shall be cause for revocation by the Commissioner of such license.
   (B)   Suspension. Licenses granted hereunder may be suspended by the
Commissioner for a period of not exceeding 30 days for the violation of any
part or portion of this chapter, or of the Liquor Control Act, or of any valid
resolution or ordinance enacted by the city, or of any applicable rule or
regulation established by the Commissioner or by the State Liquor Control
Commission or any violation of the Criminal Code which occurs on the licensed
premises or any violation of the Criminal Code which occurs off the licensed
premises where said violation involves or relates to the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises. During such period of suspension,
no alcoholic liquor shall be sold on said licensed premises.
   (C)   Fine. In addition to revocation or suspension of the liquor license by
the Commissioner, the Commissioner may fine any licensee up to $1,000, plus the
city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, for each
violation of any part or portion of this chapter, or of the Liquor Control Act,
or of any valid resolution or ordinance enacted by the city, or of any
applicable rule or regulation established by the Commissioner or by the State
Liquor Control Commission or any violation of the Criminal Code which occurs on
the licensed premises or any violation of the Criminal Code which occurs off
the licensed premises where said violation involves or relates to the sale or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 33.33) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.68 COMPLIANCE CHECK PROCEDURES CONCERNING ALCOHOL/TOBACCO RETAILERS.
   (A)   The following guidelines are to be followed when members of the City
Police Department conducts investigations into suspected abuses of alcohol and/
or tobacco being sold to minors, commonly referred to as a “compliance check.”
These investigations are conducted on retail establishments or businesses
operating within the city limits which sell or distribute alcohol or tobacco
products.
   (B)   Compliance checks are defined as a controlled, buy-type operation,
wherein a minor will attempt to purchase either alcohol or tobacco from the
respective retailer.
      (1)   Alcohol/tobacco procedures. Effective immediately, the following
procedures shall be followed by members of the City Police Department when
conducting said compliance checks.
         (a)   A compliance check operation will involve investigating those
retail establishments and businesses that sell either tobacco or alcohol. The
operations shall be specific in nature, in that they will target either tobacco
or alcohol, and not be conducted simultaneously.
         (b)   Tobacco and alcohol enforcement operations will be conducted at
a minimum of one time per year, or more as deemed necessary, or as manpower and
resources are available.
         (c)   Alcohol related compliance checks, when possible, will involve
targeting every establishment within the city that holds a liquor license, to
the extent that a member of the general public has ready access to purchase
alcoholic beverages at the location of business for the liquor license holder.
         (d)   Tobacco operations will target every retailer or business that
sells tobacco within the city, with the exemption of those tobacco retailers or
businesses which are adult in nature, i.e., bars.
         (e)   Subjects used for the tobacco operations will be between 16 to
17 years of age and have their parent or guardians consent to participate in
the operation. A parental consent form will be completed prior to the
operation.
         (f)   Subjects used for the alcohol operations will be between 17 to
20 years of age. Subjects 18 to 20 years of age will sign a consent form, and
those subjects 17 years of age will have their parent or guardian sign a
consent form.
         (g)   Minors enlisted to aid in the operation will be approved by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee.
         (h)   The minors will be of good character and have no record of
tobacco or alcohol related violations.
         (i)   Prior to the operation, the minor will provide the operations
supervisor with proof of age, such as birth certificate or valid, state photo
driver’s license or state photo identification card, for proof of birth
verification and age.
         (j)   Minors involved in the operation will dress appropriately and
make no attempt to alter their appearance for the purpose of age enhancement.
         (k)   Minors involved in the operation, if asked by the merchant or
employee of the merchant, shall provide an accurate state driver’s license to
the requesting merchant or employee of the merchant.
      (2)   Operation and transaction guidelines.
         (a)   On the date of the operation, the minor will arrive at the
Department or other designated location for a briefing. At that time, the minor
will be photographed and instructed in what they are to do and not do. They
will also be instructed to remove all personal effects from their pockets, with
the exception of their photo driver’s license.
         (b)   The minor will be issued the money for the transaction prior to
entry into the establishment.
         (c)   The officers enlisted to aid in the operation will make an
attempt to view the sale of the item, when and where possible.
         (d)   If there is a successful transaction, the minor or the observing
officer will notify the operations supervisor or his or her designee and advise
of the sale.
         (e)   Every effort will be made to preserve all evidence of the
transaction.
         (f)   The operations supervisor or his or her designee will then
immediately enter the establishment and make contact with the employee who
conducted the transaction, unless authorization from the Chief of Police has
been approved for multiple transactional purchases. In the instance of alcohol
transactions, the employee will be issued a “notice to appear” for the
violation. For tobacco violations, the employee will be issued either a
“written warning” for the first violation or “notice to appear” for any second
or subsequent violation. If warranted, enforcement actions may be sought and/or
taken against the liquor license holder.
         (g)   All evidence related to the operation will be taken into
custody, if practical and processed and secured as evidence.
         (h)   At no time during the operation, will the minor ingest alcoholic
beverages or tobacco products.
         (i)   Initial and possible subsequent reports will be generated for
the operation itself. Subsequent reports will be generated when a violation
occurs, specific to the establishment in violation.
         (j)   Upon completion of the operation, the Chief of Police or his or
her designee will be notified of those establishments that were in violation.
(Prior Code, § 33.35) (Ord. 02-9-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.69 BASSET PROGRAM.
   (A)   For purpose of this section, BASSET is defined as the state certified
Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training program licensed by
the State Liquor Control Commission, as required by 235 ILCS 5/3-12(11.1) and
5/6-27 and 77 I.A.C. Chapter XVI, § 3500.
   (B)   All original or renewal applications for a liquor license shall be
accompanied with proof of completion of a state certified BASSET program for
all persons who sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management personnel
working on the premises and anyone whose job description entails checking
identification for the purchase of alcoholic beverages pursuant to that
license.
   (C)   All licensed BASSET providers shall be required to have on file all
licenses and certificates to prove current qualifications and provide a
certificate of course completion and a card (a picture type identification is
optional) to participants as proof of completion.
   (D)   At least one person who has completed the BASSET program shall be
required to be on the licensed premises during hours when alcoholic beverages
may be purchased.
   (E)   Any new owner, manager, employee or agent requiring completion of the
BASSET program shall, until completion of the BASSET program, work under the
supervision of a person who has successfully completed the BASSET program.
   (F)   In the event a licensed premises is found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter or the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1 et
seq.), the Commissioner, within his or her sole discretion, may require all
persons who sell or serve alcoholic liquor and/or all management personnel
working in a licensed premises and/or anyone whose job description entails the
checking of identification for the purchase of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the
license to reapply, attend and successfully complete a BASSET program.
(Prior Code, § 33.36) (Ord. 09-5-3, passed - -)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or other legally recognized entity who
violates any provision of this chapter for which a specific penalty is not
stated, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor
more than $750 per offense, and be responsible for the city’s cost of
prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, for each offense or the
revocation of his or her liquor license, or to both such fine and revocation of
such license. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 33.37)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
115.46 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 33.26)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
115.47 shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500. In addition to all
other fines and penalties, the Commissioner may suspend or revoke the retail
liquor dealer’s license for any violation of §
115.47.
(Prior Code, § 33.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §
115.48 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 33.28)
CHAPTER 116: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
Cable/Video Service Provider Fee
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Cable/video service provider fee imposed
   
116.03   Applicable principles
   
116.04   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
116.05   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
116.06   Late fees, payments
**** CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE ****
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE SERVICE.  As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   COMMISSION.  The Illinois Commerce Commission.
   GROSS REVENUES.  All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property and in kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder’s cable service or video service area within
the city.
      (1)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
         (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
         (b)   Event based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges;
         (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
         (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and
repair charges;
         (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
         (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
         (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement;
         (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to this division (1)(h);
         (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or applications,
the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
      (2)   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
         (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
         (b)   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
         (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services or the provision of directory or Internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to non-
cable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
         (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
         (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes;
         (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
         (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
      (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
   HOLDER.  A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
   SERVICE.  The provision of “cable service” or “video service” to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.  The amount paid under this subchapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801 by the holder to a city for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
   VIDEO SERVICE.  Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that
is required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and
which is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the
public right of way without regard to delivery technology, including Internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d)
or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services
offered over the public Internet.
(Prior Code, § 27.01) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
§ 116.02 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Fee imposed. A fee is imposed on any holder providing cable service or
video service in the city.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the city. The holder shall notify the city at least ten days
prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or video
service in the city.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this subchapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
subchapter shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)
(6) to the city.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Exemption. The fee imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the city
in which a fee is paid.
   (G)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 27.02) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
§ 116.03 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this subchapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Prior Code, § 27.03) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
§ 116.04 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to exempt a holder
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with
respect to cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city’s
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
(Prior Code, § 27.04) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
§ 116.05 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The city will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the city. If all
local franchises between the city and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the Local
Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of
amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the city’s submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Prior Code, § 27.05) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
§ 116.06 LATE FEES, PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by the city pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights
Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 27.06) (Ord. 07-11-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS AND CHARTERED TRANSPORTATION OF DROP-OFFS
Section
Taxicabs
   
117.01   License required
   
117.02   Character of applicant
   
117.03   Number of licensees
   
117.04   License fees; taxicab standards
   
117.05   Vehicles
   
117.06   Insurance
   
117.07   Taxicab drivers
   
117.08   Traffic rules
   
117.09   Unlawful use
   
117.10   Passengers
Omnibus
   
117.25   Definitions
   
117.26   Notification of city destination
   
117.27   Contents of notice
   
117.28   Responsibility for passengers
   
117.29   Exemptions
 
   
117.99   Penalty
**** TAXICABS ****
§ 117.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab
in the city without first having secured a license therefor. Applications for
such licenses shall be made in writing to the city, and shall include the name
of the applicant, the intended place of business and the number of taxicabs to
be operated.
   (B)   If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of its
president and secretary shall be given.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.02 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No taxicab license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a
person of good character or who has been convicted of a felony; nor shall such
license be issued to or held by any corporation of any officer thereof would be
ineligible for a license under the foregoing conditions.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 117.03 NUMBER OF LICENSEES.
   There shall be no more than two taxicab licenses in the city. No person or
corporation shall be issued more than one license, nor shall a license be
issued unless the licensee has taxicabs in service.
(Prior Code, § 36.03)
§ 117.04 LICENSE FEES; TAXICAB STANDARDS.
   (A)   The annual fee payable in advance for a taxicab license shall be $10
for the first taxicab and $5 for each additional taxicab operated up to a
maximum fee of $75. All fees shall be paid to the city at the time application
is made. In the event the license is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. If the license is issued, the fee shall be deposited in the city’s
General Corporate Fund or such other fund designated by the City Council.
Whenever the number of taxicabs operated is increased during the license year,
the licensee shall notify the city of the change and shall pay the additional
fee to the city. Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by
ordinance, and the city shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of
taxicabs covered by each license. Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a
prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use. If a taxicab is withdrawn
from service and another taxicab replaces the one withdrawn, the licensee shall
notify the city, who shall issue a tag or sticker for such replacement taxicab
upon the payment of a $1 transfer fee. The licensee shall notify the city of
the motor number and the license number of each taxicab operated and of the
corresponding city tag or sticker number.
   (B)   The annual license fee shall include the right to use one or more of
the designated parking places for taxicabs in each of the various locations
throughout the city, known as cab stands. Cab stands shall be assigned by the
Chief of Police and no other licensee shall use that parking place or places.
Each cab stand shall be appropriately marked by signs erected under the
supervision of the Chief of Police. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
other than a taxicab in any cab stand.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 VEHICLES.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a state license, and no
taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with proper brakes, lights,
tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror and windshield wipers in good
condition. All taxicabs shall be subject to a semiannual safety test at an
official State Police testing station. A certificate of safety, with a number
on the face indicating the date of the next inspection period the vehicle is
subject to inspection, shall be displayed in a prominent place on each taxicab.
If the test shows the taxicab is not in a safe mechanical condition, it shall
not be operated on the streets of the city until it has been issued a
certificate of safety issued. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
inspect every taxicab as necessary to ensure compliance with this section.
   (B)   Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters
readable from a distance of 20 feet, the name of the licensee operating it. If
more than one taxicab is operated by a licensee, each taxicab shall be
designated by a different number, and such number also shall so appear on each
side of such taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 INSURANCE.
   No taxicab shall be operated unless it is covered by a bond or public
liability policy as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a taxicab unless licensed by the state. Proof of
such license shall be submitted to the Chief of Police, who will issue a
certificate that the applicant has complied with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab driver, while on duty, to drink
any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, or to shout
or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace in any way.
   (C)   The taxicab licensee shall submit a list of drivers to the city
semiannually.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.08 TRAFFIC RULES.
   It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic rules
established by statute or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36.08)
§ 117.09 UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the
preparation of a crime or misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 36.09) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 PASSENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to use the taxicab, provided such person is not
intoxicated and conducts himself or herself in an orderly manner.
   (B)   No person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger
without the consent of the passenger.
   (C)   The driver of a taxicab shall not carry a passenger in the front seat
of the taxicab.
   (D)   The driver shall take his or her passenger to his or her destination
by the most direct available route from the place where the passenger enters
the taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 36.10) Penalty, see §
117.99
**** OMNIBUS ****
§ 117.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY DESTINATION.  Any omnibus driver which, for any reason other than a
bona fide vehicular emergency, stops within the city to discharge six or more
passengers, the majority of whom are not permanent residents within the city or
within ten miles of the boundaries of the city.
   LICENSE FEE.  Any omnibus driver which intends to make a city destination
must previously have applied for and received a license to do so from the city.
The license fee shall be $100 per calendar year.
   OMNIBUS DRIVER.  Omnibus driver means any person employed to drive a
passenger carrying vehicle other than a taxi car and all others pursuing like
occupations who drive, rent or own vehicles with a lawful capacity of greater
than ten passengers.
   PASSENGER.  Any person receiving the services of transportation for hire by
an omnibus driver.
(Prior Code, § 36A.01) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 117.26 NOTIFICATION OF CITY DESTINATION.
   Any omnibus driver which intends to make a city destination must provide at
least 48 hours’ prior written notice of the intention for the city destination
to the City Clerk. The notification shall be in writing and shall be sent by
certified mail or personally delivered to the City Clerk at the City Hall, 132
E. Prairie Street, Marengo, IL 60152. Because of the important need for the
city to be aware of such a city destination and because of the current slowness
of regular mail and the uncertainty of email transmission, certified mail or
personal written notice delivered in person to the office of the City Clerk,
shall be the only lawful notices allowed to avoid a violation of the notice
provision of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 36A.02) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 117.27 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice required to be provided in §
117.26 shall include the name of the omnibus driver, the day and time, within a
two-hour window when the city destination is planned. City destinations shall
only be allowed from Monday through Friday between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and
1:00 p.m. during regular business days when the City Hall is open for business.
These hours have been chosen to allow the city to take certain steps relating
to the actions the city would view appropriate in relationship to the delivery
of the passengers who, the city believes, would most likely not be United
States citizens with no lawful process relating to their specific entry into
the United States. The notice shall also describe the number of passengers
likely to be exiting in the city and based upon any prior or current facts
known to the omnibus driver, whether such passengers are indeed likely to be a
majority of non-citizens of the United States who entered or remain in the
United States with no lawful process. The notice shall also provide that the
omnibus driver is aware that the location for city destination shall be the
City Hall, which is located at 132 E. Prairie Street, Marengo, IL 60152.
(Prior Code, § 36A.03) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 117.28 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PASSENGERS.
   The omnibus driver shall be responsible for coordinating the transportation
of the passengers from the stop location in the city to their final destination
(s), and the omnibus driver shall remain with the passengers until all
passengers have departed the city destination for their final destination(s),
or until the city’s designated representative approves departure of the omnibus
driver.
(Prior Code, § 36A.04) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 117.29 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter applies to all omnibus drivers disembarking passengers
within the city other than on a predictable and recurring basis, that do not
follow a schedule that is published in advance and available to the public, or
do not provide service open to the public in exchange for paying a fare.
Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any transportation for hire services
which: is operated by the federal government or any department or agency
thereof; is for the transportation of students for school purposes; is operated
primarily on an on demand door to door basis for the use of disabled
passengers; or under the Constitution of the United States or the state, may
not be made the subject of this regulation by the city.
(Prior Code, § 36A.05) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any omnibus driver found to have violated any provision of §§
117.25 through
117.29 shall be liable for a fine of not less than $750 for each passenger
dropped off in the city. In addition, any person or entity found to be in
violation shall be responsible for the city’s cost of prosecution, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees. The city may also seek to enforce §§
117.25 through
117.29 through an application in circuit court for an injunction or other
relief. If §§
117.25 through
117.29 could be administered through administrative adjudication or through a
filing in the circuit court, the city shall determine which method it shall
utilize.
(Prior Code, § 36A.06) (Ord. 24-1-2, passed 1-22-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
130.01   Street gang activity
   
130.02   Alcoholic beverages
   
130.03   Drug paraphernalia
   
130.04   Persons responsible for unlawful activities on their premises
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 STREET GANG ACTIVITY.
   (A)   City Council findings.
      (1)   The City Council hereby finds and declares that it is the right of
every person, regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex,
gender, sexual orientation, age or disability to be secure and protected from
fear, intimidation and physical harm caused by the activities of violent groups
and individuals. It is not the intent of this section to interfere with the
exercise of the constitutionally protected rights of freedom of expression and
association. The City Council hereby recognizes the constitutional right of
every citizen to harbor and express beliefs on any lawful subject whatsoever,
to lawfully associate with others who share similar beliefs, to petition
lawfully constituted authority for a redress of perceived grievances and to
participate in the electoral process.
      (2)   The City Council finds, however, that urban, suburban and rural
communities, neighborhoods and schools throughout the state are being
terrorized and plundered by street gangs. The City Council finds there are now
several hundred street gangs operating in the state, and that while their
terrorism is most widespread in urban areas, street gangs are spreading into
suburban and rural areas of the state, including the county.
      (3)   The City Council further finds that street gangs are often
controlled by criminally sophisticated adults who take advantage of our youth
by intimidating and coercing them into membership by employing them as drug
couriers and runners, and by using them to commit brutal crimes against persons
and property to further the financial benefit to and dominance of the street
gang.
      (4)   Street gang activity presents a clear and present danger to public
order and safety and is not constitutionally protected. No society is or should
be required to endure such activities without redress. Accordingly, it is the
intent of the City Council, by enacting this section, to prohibit street gang-
related activity.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, STREET GANG or GANG is
defined as any ongoing organization, association in fact or group of three or
more persons, whether formally or informally organized, or any sub-group or
affiliated group thereof, having as one of its activities the commission of
criminal or illegal acts, including, by way of example only and not in any way
limiting or specifying illegal drug distribution, and whose members
individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal
or illegal acts, and which group frequently, though not necessarily, claim one
or more particular geographic territory or “turf” exclusively as its realm of
influence and operations.
   (C)   Prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly
use, display or wear colors, emblems or insignia on or about his or her person
in public for the purpose of promoting any street gang activity.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly do
or make any act, utterance, gesture or display for the purpose of communicating
membership of, affiliation with, association with, support of, identification
with, sympathy toward or affront or insult toward any street gang, or with
actual knowledge that the subject act, utterance, gesture or display is used
and recognized as communicative of street gang membership, affiliation,
association, support, identification, sympathy or affront.
(Prior Code, § 40.01) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Intoxicating liquors. Any police officer having probable cause that
intoxicating liquors are being kept in violation of law in any place shall
search such suspected place, and if the police officer finds upon the premises
intoxicating liquors, he or she shall seize the same, together with the vessels
in which they are contained, with the intent of violating this section, and
shall arrest any person or persons in charge of such place, or aiding in any
manner in carrying on the business conducted in such place.
   (B)   Public property. Consumption or possession of any alcoholic liquors
without a permit issued by the city pursuant to
Chapter 115, including beer and wine, at any time in any public park, street,
alley or public place owned, controlled or operated by the city is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA is defined as all
equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used, intended for use
or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
controlled substance as defined in 720 ILCS 550/3 et seq. and 720 ILCS 570/202
through 570/212, as amended. It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or cannabis or from which a controlled substance or
cannabis can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substance or cannabis;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance
or cannabis;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances or cannabis;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances or cannabis;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances or cannabis;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances or
cannabis;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances or cannabis;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances or cannabis; and
      (11)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish oil into the
human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburization tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburization masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Chamber pipes;
         (g)   Carburetor pipes;
         (h)   Electric pipes;
         (i)   Air-driven pipes;
         (j)   Chillums;
         (k)   Bongs; and
         (l)   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substances;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this section;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of this section; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation of this section, shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its “use.”
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
display, furnish, supply or give away any cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe,
hashish pipe or any drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical
laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropractors
and podiatrists, veterinarians, pharmacists or embalmers in the normal lawful
course of their respective businesses or professions, nor to common carriers or
warehouses or their employees engaged in the lawful transportation of such
paraphernalia, nor to public officers or employees while engaged in the
performance of their official duties, nor to persons suffering from diabetes,
asthma or any other medical condition requiring self-injection. The prohibition
contained in this section shall not apply to drug paraphernalia authorized by
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.,
or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 40.03) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES ON THEIR PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who are the owners or
occupants of any premises to allow, initiate or maintain any gathering on that
premises in which tenants, invitees, visitors or trespassers engage in any
unlawful activity. Unlawful activity shall include, but not be limited to,
violations of any sections of this chapter. A person will be deemed to have
permitted the gathering if that person is on the premises while the unlawful
activity is occurring and has not informed the police thereof. For purposes of
this section only, a gathering shall consist of two or more persons who are not
occupants or owners of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this penalty section, any person,
firm or corporation violating any section of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $100 for each offense and be responsible for the city’s cost of
prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any property damaged
or destroyed or person injured.
      (2)   A defendant who has been found guilty and ordered to pay a fine
under this chapter may petition the court to convert all or part of the fine
into court-approved public or community service, to be performed as directed by
and to be verified by the Department of Court Services.
      (3)   The public or community service work assigned shall be, whenever
available, for the benefit of the city, or agency or department thereof. If no
public or community service work opportunities are available for the benefit of
the city or agency or department thereof, the defendant shall be assigned to
perform public or community service work for a not-for-profit organization or
agency which provides service to or otherwise benefits the citizens of the
city.
      (4)   One hour of public or community service shall be equivalent to $5
of fine, upon conversion.
      (5)   Neither restitution obligations nor mandatory court costs or
attorneys’ fees may be converted to or discharged by public or community
service work.
      (6)   Neither the city, nor any agency or department thereof, the
Department of Court Services, public or community service programs or site, nor
any official or employee thereof acting in the course of their official duties,
shall be liable for any injury or loss a person may receive while performing
public or community service as ordered by the court pursuant to this section,
nor shall they be liable for any tortious acts of any person performing public
or community service, except for willful, wanton misconduct or gross negligence
on the part of such governmental unit, official or employee.
      (7)   No person assigned to a public or community service program shall
be considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the city, the county or
not-for-profit organization or agency be obligated to provide any compensation
to such person.
(Prior Code, § 40.05)
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 40.01)
   (C)   Any person violating §
130.02 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 40.02)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §
130.03 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner of any
property damaged or destroyed. Nothing herein shall preclude such additional
civil remedies available to the person whose property has been damaged or
destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 40.03)
   (E)   Any person violating §
130.04 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any property damaged
or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 40.04)
(Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, SAFETY AND MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct
   
131.02   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
131.03   Battery
   
131.04   Assault
   
131.05   Weapons
   
131.06   Fireworks
   
131.07   Barbed wire fences
   
131.08   Noise
   
131.09   Damaging property
   
131.10   Littering
   
131.11   Trespasses
   
131.12   Combustible refuse
   
131.13   Parades and demonstration
   
131.14   Bathing
   
131.15   Possession, sale and use of tobacco, smokeless tobacco, tobacco
accessories, smoking herbs and alternative nicotine
   
131.16   Curfew
   
131.17   Parental responsibility
   
131.18   Theft of service
   
131.19   Bicycles, tricycles, skateboards or similar motorized and non-
motorized recreational devices
   
131.20   Non-smoking environment
   
131.21   Remote control devices
   
131.22   Truancy
   
131.23   Public indecency
   
131.24   Theft
   
131.25   Cannabis
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in disorderly conduct in the city. A person
commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any municipality
or Fire Protection District a false alarm or fire, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such fire
exists;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
      (4)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed;
      (5)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose and deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any
window or other opening in it;
      (6)   With the purpose of causing public danger, alarm, disorder,
nuisance, he or she commits any of the following acts in a public place:
         (a)   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby that
other person is placed in danger of his or her life or health;
         (b)   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged;
         (c)   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous
conduct so as to endanger the life, health or property of another;
         (d)   Interferes with another’s pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts
of violence;
         (e)   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the
flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic on a public way and refuses to clear
such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or other lawful
authority;
         (f)   Incites, attempts to incite or is involved in attempting to
incite a riot or unlawful disturbance;
         (g)   Uses abusive language or threats to any peace officer or any
other person when such words have a direct tendency to cause acts of violence.
Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance or resentment are not prohibited;
         (h)   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable
noise or disturbance in a public place or affecting a public place or another
person’s premises to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to any
public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or common, whereby the
public peace is broken or disturbed, or the traveling public annoyed;
         (i)   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a peace officer
where one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the
immediate vicinity, and the public health and safety is threatened;
         (j)   Uses abusive or obscene language or makes an obscene gesture in
public;
         (k)   Assembles with three or more persons for the purpose of using
force or violence to disturb the public peace;
         (l)   Assembles with three or more persons for the purpose of
violating any provision of this code; and
         (m)   Appears in any public place and is under the influence of
alcohol or controlled substance, to the degree that he or she may endanger
himself or herself or other persons or property, or alarm or disturb other
persons in his or her vicinity.
      (7)   Permits any assembly of two or more persons for the purpose of
committing any unlawful act or breach of the peace, or any riotous, offense or
disorderly conduct, in or upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her or
under his or her control.
      (8)   Interrupts or disturbs any lawful assembly of people by making any
loud or unusual noise, or by rude or indecent behavior, or by profane, obscene
or improper discourse or conduct.
      (9)   Engages in mob action. For the purpose of this division (A)(9), MOB
ACTION consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two
or more persons acting together and without authority of law;
         (b)   The assembly of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act;
or
         (c)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law,
for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed
to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
      (10)   Disturbs, tends to disturb or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous conduct, and no person shall knowingly permit
such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by them or under their
control; or
      (11)   Uses paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage or destroy
property.
(Prior Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   No person shall resist or obstruct a peace office in the city. A person who
knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the person to be
a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her official capacity
commits the offense of resisting or obstructing a peace officer.
(Prior Code, § 43.02) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 BATTERY.
   (A)   No person shall commit a battery in the city.
   (B)   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly,
without legal justification and by any means:
      (1)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      (2)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
(Prior Code, § 43.03) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ASSAULT.
   No person shall commit an assault in the city. A person commits an assault
when, without lawful authority, he or she engages in conduct which places
another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(Prior Code, § 43.04) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 WEAPONS.
   (A)   Weapons. Unless authorized by law, no person shall wear under his or
her clothing, or conceal about his or her person, or display in a threatening
like manner, any dangerous or deadly weapon, including, but not limited to, any
pistol, revolver, sling shot, knuckles, any Bowie or similar knife, or any
knife with a switch-blade or device whereby the blade or blades can be opened
by a button, pressure on the handle or other mechanical contrivance.
   (B)   Discharge of firearms. Except as provided in division (C) below, no
person shall discharge any firearms in the city. In addition to those firearms
defined by state statutes, for the purpose of this section, FIREARMS shall
include pump air rifles, potato guns, CO2 pellet guns and any other device
capable of discharging a projectile if used with intent to inflict harm to
person or property or to assault or threaten harm to a person or property or
when used in a reckless manner
   (C)   Exceptions. For the purpose of protecting livestock against wildlife
predators and hunting, the discharge of firearms is permitted in the AT
Agricultural Transition District in the city; provided, that the persons
discharging firearms are not in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq., as
amended, and the State Department of Natural Resources hunting regulations, or
in connection with the use of a firearm at a lawfully established indoor
shooting range.
   (D)   Display and sale of specified weapons. No pawnbroker, second-hand
dealer or other person engaged in business in the city shall display or place
on exhibition in any show window or other window facing upon any street, any
pistol, revolver or other firearm, with a barrel less than 12 inches in length,
or any brass or metal knuckles, or any club loaded with lead or other weight,
or any blackjack or billy club. Weapons displayed for sale shall be incapable
of firing. In non-business hours, said weapons shall be stored in a secured and
locked vault, safe or security box.
(Prior Code, § 43.05) (Ord. 14-3-5, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall possess, sell, offer for sale, use or explode any fireworks
in the city, except the City Administrator and the Chief of Police may grant a
permit for a public display of fireworks under such conditions as they may
impose under the provisions of 425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 43.06) (Ord. 12-10-2, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person shall maintain any fences containing barbed wire along or near any
public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 43.07) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial
repair, alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition, for or of
public or private right-of-way, structures, utilities or similar property.
      DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces or similar
property.
      EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or
alleviating the physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
emergency.
      IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than one second,
with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound
include explosions, drop forge impacts and the discharge of firearms.
      INDUSTRIAL AREA. As defined in Chapter 158.
      MOTOR CARRIER VEHICLE ENGAGED IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE. Any vehicle for
which regulations apply pursuant to § 18 of the Federal Noise Control Act of
1972 (Pub. Law No. 92-574), as amended, pertaining to motor carriers engaged in
interstate commerce.
      MOTORCYCLE. An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of
the operator and two or three wheels in contact with the ground, including, but
not limited to, motor scooters and minibikes.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is propelled or drawn on land by a motor,
such as, but not limited to, passenger car, truck, truck trailer, semi-trailer,
camper, go-cart, snowmobile, amphibious raft on land, dune buggy or racing
vehicle, but not including motorcycles.
      MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE. A device for abating the sound of
escaping gases of an internal combustion engine.
      NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends
to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
      NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which either:
         (a)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals;
         (b)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person or normal sensitivities;
or
         (c)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state.
      POWERED MODEL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled airborne, waterborne or
landborne plane, vessel or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons,
including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car or rocket.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
      PUBLIC SPACE. Any real properties or structures thereon which are owned
or controlled by a governmental entity.
      REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. An imaginary line along the ground surface, and
its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person
from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building real
property divisions.
      RESIDENTIAL AREA. As defined in Chapter 158.
      WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
   (B)   Noise sensitive zone recommendations. The City Council may designate
the noise sensitive zone which contains noise sensitive activities. Existing
quiet zones shall be considered noise sensitive zones until otherwise
designated. Noise sensitive activities include, but are not limited to,
operation of a school, public library, church, hospital and nursing home.
   (C)   Noise disturbances prohibited. No person shall unreasonably make or
continue, or cause to be made or continued, any noise disturbance.
Noncommercial public speaking and public assembly activities which are
conducted on any public space or public right-of-way shall be exempt from this
division (C).
   (D)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
      (1)   No person shall operate, play or permit the operation or playing of
any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or
similar device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
         (a)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
in such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone, except for activities open to the
public and for which a permit has been issued by the City Council;
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet or
15 meters from such a device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a
public right-of-way or public space; or
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not apply to noncommercial spoken language
covered. (See division (E) below.)
   (E)   Loudspeaker or public address systems. No person shall;
      (1)   Use or operate for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system or similar device between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. the following day, such that the sound therefrom creates a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone; and
      (2)   Use or operate for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker, public
address system or similar device as follows:
         (a)   Such that the sound creates a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone; or
         (b)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
on a public right-of-way or public space.
   (F)   Street sales. No person shall offer for sale or sell anything by
shouting or outcry within any residential or commercial area except by permit
issued by the City Council.
   (G)   Animals and birds. No person shall own, possess or harbor any animal
or bird which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows,
squawks or makes other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a
residential real property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   (H)   Loading and unloading. No person shall load, unload, open, close or
otherwise handle boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or
similar objects between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   (I)   Construction. Except as provided herein and except for emergency work
of public service utilities, no person shall operate or permit the operation of
any tools or equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition work so as
to create a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary or
within a noise sensitive zone. The proper working hours shall be as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays.
   (J)   Vehicle or motorboat repairs and testing. No person shall repair,
rebuilt, modify or test any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
   (K)   Places of public entertainment. No person shall operate, play or
permit the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum,
musical instrument, sound amplifier or similar device which produces,
reproduces or amplifies sound in any place of public entertainment at a sound
level greater than 90 dBA as read by the slow response on a sound level meter
at any point that is normally occupied by a customer, unless a conspicuous and
legible sign is located outside such place, near the public entrance, stating
“Warning: Sound Levels Within May Cause Permanent Hearing Impairment.”
   (L)   Powered model vehicles. No person shall operate or permit the
operation of powered model vehicles so as to create a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary, in a public space or within a noise
sensitive zone between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day.
The maximum sound levels in a public space during the permitted period of
operation shall be measured at a distance of 50 feet or 15 meters from any
point on the path of the vehicle.
   (M)   Stationary non-emergency signaling devices. Except for devices used in
conjunction with places of religious worship, no person shall sound or permit
the sounding of any electronically amplified signal from any stationary bell,
chime, siren, whistle or similar device intended primarily for non-emergency
purposes, from any place for more than ten minutes in any hourly period.
   (N)   Emergency signaling devices.
      (1)   Except for emergency purposes or for testing, no person shall
intentionally sound or permit the sounding outdoors of any fire, burglar or
civil defense alarm siren, whistle or similar stationary emergency signaling
devices.
      (2)   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall occur at
the same time of day each time such test is performed but not before 7:00 a.m.
or after 6:00 p.m. Any such testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time.
In no case shall such test time exceed 60 seconds.
      (3)   Testing of a complete emergency signaling system, including the
functioning of the signaling device and the personnel response to the signaling
device, shall not occur more than once in each calendar month. Such testing
shall not occur before 7:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. A time limit shall be
applicable to such complete system testing.
   (O)   Noise sensitive zones. No person shall create or cause the creation of
any sound within any noise sensitive zone so as to disrupt the activities
normally conducted within the zone or disturb or annoy the patients of a
hospital, nursing home or similar activity, provided that conspicuous signs are
displayed indicating the presence of the zone.
   (P)   Domestic power tools. No person shall operate or permit the operation
of any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
snowblower or similar device used outdoors in residential areas between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day so as to create a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary.
   (Q)   Emergency exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence
of an emergency or the emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   (R)   Exceptions. Exceptions to this section may be granted by the City
Council upon the filing of an application. Said application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
into compliance with this section would constitute an unreasonable hardship on
the applicant, the city or on other persons.
   (S)   Motor vehicles. No person shall operate or permit the operation of any
motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWT) in excess of 10,000
pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to such a vehicle, for a period
longer than 15 minutes in any hour while the vehicle is stationary for reasons
other than traffic congestion, on a public right-of-way or designated noise
sensitive zone, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following
day.
(Prior Code, § 43.08) (Ord. 08-11-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.09 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall damage, befoul, disturb, destroy or deface any city
property or any public or private property without permission of the owner.
   (B)   “Graffiti” defined. GRAFFITI is any permanent display of any name,
identification, letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, a picture, outline,
character, spectacle, delineation, illustration, symbol or any combination
thereof, which without authorization is marked, written, drawn, painted,
scratched, inscribed or affixed, and which is a different color from the color
of the exterior of those objects or structures described above and to which it
is affixed.
   (C)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful, and is hereby declared a nuisance,
to place graffiti, or permit graffiti to remain upon any public or private curb
stone, flagstone, brick, sidewalk or any portion of any part of any sidewalk or
street, or upon any tree, lamp post, telephone pole, utility box, utility pole,
stanchion, postal mail receptacle, sign, hydrant, fence, door, wall, window,
garage or enclosure, vehicle, bridge, pier or upon any other public or private
structure or building.
   (D)   Graffiti removal. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve
or cause to be served, a notice upon the owner and person in possession of any
such object or structure upon which graffiti is present and to demand the
abatement of the nuisance within five days. All exterior surfaces shall be kept
clean and free of graffiti. Surfaces which have been exposed to graffiti shall
be cleaned, painted or in some manner covered, so as to effect the complete
removal or the graffiti from that surface and return the surface to its prior
condition within five days of receipt of the violation notice to the owner. The
duty of the owner and person in possession shall be joint and several.
(Prior Code, § 43.09) (Ord. 01-8-3, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.10 LITTERING.
   No person shall litter any public or private property with paper or other
debris or foreign matter. Any stored or transported materials susceptible to
blowing or scattering shall be adequately covered or protected to prevent
littering.
(Prior Code, § 43.10) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.11 TRESPASSES.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass
within this city upon either public or private property.
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of this section, any of the following acts
by any person shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses
in violation of the provisions of this section, and appropriate action may be
taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any
violation or violations of this section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so
included, being as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to such premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protect given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of any entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such premises or at any notice, warning or
protest given orally or in writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, wither orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(Prior Code, § 43.11) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.12 COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such
manner as to create a fire hazard, or to throw or deposit, or cause to thrown
or deposited, any such refuse of any kind on or in any street, highway or alley
or other public place within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.12) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.13 PARADES AND DEMONSTRATION.
   (A)   No person shall participate in or promote any parade or demonstration
on any street or other public property unless a permit has been issued by the
City Council.
   (B)   Application for such permit shall provide such information as the
Chief of Police shall require for proper protection of the public.
   (C)   No such parade or demonstration shall be held during the night time,
or in any such manner as to obstruct the orderly use by the public of any
street or public place.
   (D)   The City Council may issue such permit subject to such reasonable
restrictions as it shall deem necessary to safeguard the residents of the city
and to protect private and public property.
(Prior Code, § 43.13) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14 BATHING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place, or in any
place open to public view, unless such person is adequately or decently clothed
or garbed in a bathing suit; and it shall be unlawful for any person to robe or
disrobe at any public place or in any place open to public view, or to change
clothing, or to change into or out of a bathing suit at any public place or in
any place open to public view, or in an automobile or other motor vehicle on or
in any street, highway, alley or other public place within the corporate limits
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.14) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND USE OF TOBACCO, SMOKELESS TOBACCO, TOBACCO
ACCESSORIES, SMOKING HERBS AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT. A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing or by any other means. Said PRODUCTS include, but are not limited to,
electronic cigarettes, vapor pens and other similar devices.
      BIDI CIGARETTE. A product that contains tobacco that is wrapped in
temburni or tendu leaf or that is wrapped in any other material identified by
rules of the State Department of Public Health that is similar in appearance or
characteristics to the temburni or tendu leaf.
      ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE or E-CIGARETTE. An electronic device usually
composed of a mouthpiece, a heating element or atomizer, a battery and
electronic circuits that provides a gas derived from liquid nicotine, vaping
liquids and/or other substances which is inhaled by a user simulating smoking.
The term includes such devices, regardless of the details of the product
appearance or marketed name, generally manufactured to resemble cigarettes,
cigars, pipes or other smoking devices.
      SMOKING HERBS. All substances of plant origin and their derivatives,
including, but not limited to, broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops,
ginseng, lobelia, jimson weed and other members of the Datura genus, passion
flower and wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as
smoking materials.
      SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that
is intended to be placed in the oral cavity; any tobacco product that is
suitable for dipping or chewing.
      TOBACCO ACCESSORIES. Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking
materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items, designed
primarily for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances
made illegal under any statute or of substances whose sale, gift, barter or
exchange is unlawful.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco or tobacco.
      VAPING LIQUIDS. Any liquid product composed either in whole or part of
nicotine, propylene glycol and/or other similar substances and manufactured for
use with an e-cigarette, a vapor pen or any other device that converts the
liquid into gas for inhaling.
   (B)   Purchase and use of bidi cigarettes, smoking herbs, tobacco
accessories and tobacco products. No person under 21 years of age shall
purchase any tobacco product in any of its forms. No person shall sell,
purchase for, distribute samples of or furnish any tobacco product in any of
its forms to any person under 21 years of age. Tobacco products may be sold
through a vending machine only when such tobacco products are not sold along
with non-tobacco products in the vending machine and only in the following
locations:
      (1)   Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and other places not
open to the general public;
      (2)   Places to which persons under 21 years of age are not permitted
access;
      (3)   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises;
      (4)   Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision
(which means that the owner or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to the
vending machine) of the owner of the establishment or an employee over 18 years
of age. The sale of tobacco products from a vending machine under direct
supervision of the owner or an employee of the establishment is considered a
sale of tobacco products by that person; and
      (5)   Places where the vending machine can only be operated by the owner
or an employee over age 18 either directly or through a remote control device
if the device is inaccessible to all customers.
   (C)   Possession of tobacco products. No person under 21 years of age shall
possess any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms.
   (D)   Tobacco accessories and smoking herbs.
      (1)   Sale to minors prohibited. No person shall knowingly sell, barter,
exchange, deliver or give away, or cause or permit, or procure to be sold,
bartered, exchanged, delivered or given away tobacco accessories or smoking
herbs to any person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Sale of bidi cigarettes. No person shall knowingly sell, barter,
exchange, deliver or give away a bidi cigarette to another person, nor shall a
person cause, or permit, or procure a bidi cigarette to be sold, bartered,
exchanged, delivered or given away to another person.
      (3)   Sale of cigarette paper. No person shall knowingly offer, sell,
barter, exchange, deliver or give away cigarette paper or cause, permit or
procure cigarette paper to be sold, offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered or
given away except from premises or an establishment where other tobacco
products are sold.
      (4)   Sale of cigarette paper from vending machines. No person shall
knowingly offer, sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give away cigarette paper
or cause, permit or procure cigarette paper to be sold, offered, bartered,
exchanged, delivered or given away by use of a vending or coin-operated machine
or device. For the purpose of this division (D)(4), cigarette paper shall not
include any paper that is incorporated into a product to which a tax stamp must
be affixed under the Cigarette Tax Act (35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
      (5)   Use of identification cards. No person in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining smoking accessories and smoking herbs shall display
or use a false or forged identification card or transfer, alter or deface an
identification card.
      (6)   Warning to minors.
         (a)   Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation operating
a place of business where tobacco accessories and smoking herbs are sold or
offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the premises a sign
which there shall be imprinted the following statement: “Sale of tobacco
accessories and smoking herbs to persons under 21 years of age or the
misrepresentation of age to procure such a sale is prohibited by law.”
         (b)   The sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters at
least one-half inch in height.
   (E)   Purchase, sale and possession of alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   Purchase by minors. No person under 21 years of age shall purchase
any alternative nicotine product or vaping liquids, in any of their forms.
      (2)   Sale/delivery to minors. No person shall sell, purchase for,
distribute samples of or furnish any alternative nicotine product or vaping
liquids in any of its forms to any person under 21 years of age.
      (3)   Sale/delivery by minors. No person under 18 years of age shall
sell, deliver, barter, give or exchange alterative nicotine products or vaping
liquids.
      (4)   Possession by minors. No person under 21 years of age shall possess
any alternative nicotine products or vaping liquids.
      (5)   Vending machine sales. Any sales of alternative nicotine products
or vaping liquids by way of vending machine shall comply with the provisions of
division (B)(1) above.
      (6)   Use of identification cards. No person in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining an alternative nicotine product or vaping liquids
shall display or use a false or forged identification card or transfer, alter
or deface an identification card.
      (7)   Warning to minors.
         (a)   Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation operating
a place of business where alternative nicotine products and vaping liquids are
sold or offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the premises a
sign which there shall be imprinted the following statement: “Sale of
alternative nicotine products and vaping liquids to persons under 21 years of
age or the misrepresentation of age to procure such a sale is prohibited by
law.”
         (b)   The sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters which
are at least one-half inch in height.
(Prior Code, § 43.15) (Ord. 10-8-2, passed - -; Ord. 15-3-1, passed - -; Ord.
23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person less than 17 years of age to be
present or upon any public road, street, alley or park, or other lands used for
public purposes, or in any public place of business or amusement in the city,
at the following times unless such person is accompanied and supervised by a
parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age
approved by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the statutes of the state authorize a person less than 17
years of age to perform:
         (a)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Friday;
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday; and
         (c)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person
to knowingly allow or permit a person in his or her custody or legal control to
violate this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the
operation of the curfew:
      (1)   At any time when accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or
other adult person responsible for or having the legal care, custody and
control of the individual, or an authorized adult;
      (2)   If participating in, going to or returning from, without any detour
or stop:
         (a)   An emergency as defined herein;
         (b)   Lawful employment;
         (c)   Attending an official school, religious or other social or
recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a unit of
government, civic organization or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the attendees; or
         (d)   An activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights
protected by the United States Constitution (or those similar rights protected
by the state Constitution), such as free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and the right of assembly.
      (3)   Is married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Mature Minors Act, as amended (750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.).
   (C)   Establishments. The owner, operator or any employee of an
establishment commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to
remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours or fails to
promptly notify the Police Department that a minor is present on the premises
of the establishment during curfew hours and refuses to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the suspected offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place or on the premises. The police officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this section unless the police officer
reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any
response and other circumstances, no exception in division (B) above applies.
(Prior Code, § 43.16) (Ord. 04-4-2, passed - -; Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian to knowingly
allow or permit said minor to commit any violation of a city ordinance or state
statute concerning vandalism, battery, fireworks, obscene conduct, trespass,
possession of weapons or alcoholic liquor, curfew, disorderly street gang
conduct or any other offense or willful or malicious acts to persons or
property.
   (B)   The parent or guardian responsible for the willful or malicious acts
of the minor child pursuant to this section shall make full restitution to the
injured or damaged party or parties within ten days after notification by mail.
Parents and guardians shall be responsible individually and jointly.
(Prior Code, § 43.17) (Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18 THEFT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Unauthorized connection prohibited. No person shall make any
unauthorized connection, physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or
otherwise, with any part of the cable television system existing in the city
for the purpose of enabling himself or herself or others to receive television
signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds or any other information or
intelligence transmitted over said cable television system without payment to
the owner of the cable television system.
   (B)   Tampering prohibited. No person shall, without the consent of the
owner of the cable television system, willfully tamper with, remove or injure
any cable, wires or other equipment used for the distribution programs, sounds
or any other information or intelligence transmitted over said cable television
system.
(Prior Code, § 43.18) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.19 BICYCLES, TRICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS OR SIMILAR MOTORIZED AND NON-
MOTORIZED RECREATIONAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. The B-1 Central Business District, as
identified in Chapter 158.
      CITY PROPERTY. Any sidewalk, street right-of-way, city park, city parking
lot/area or any other public property owned by the city.
      MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. As defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-148.3, as amended.
      PERSONAL USE VEHICLE and PERSONAL USE DEVICE. Vehicles, devices or means
of transportation or recreation which include, but are not limited to, the
following: skateboard, bicycle, tricycle, roller blade, roller skate or other
similar device, whether non-motorized or motorized (electric, gasoline engine
or other form of external power), mini-bike, pedalcycle, recreational device or
vehicle, snowmobile, go-kart, moped, all-terrain vehicles (ATV), golf cart or
other such motorized or non-motorized devices or vehicles or modes of
transportation.
   (B)   Use of personal use vehicles and devices. Except as provided in
division (C) below, it shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for
any person to operate, ride on, be pushed on or traverse on a personal use
vehicle or personal use device on any city property or on any private property
without the permission of the property owner.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Motorized wheelchairs shall be permitted to operate on any city
property so long as operated in a safe and orderly manner.
      (2)   Non-motorized bicycles, tricycles, skateboards and other non-
motorized recreational devices or vehicles may be operated on sidewalks in
residential zoning districts, provided the operators remain in single file,
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians, and, when approaching a pedestrian,
reduce the speed of the device to a speed which is no greater than necessary to
continue the safe operation of the device, and without impairing the right-of-
way of the pedestrian or without causing alarm or danger and/or damage to the
pedestrian and/or property.
      (3)   Non-motorized tricycles, operated by children accompanied by an
adult, shall be permitted in Calvin Spencer Park.
      (4)   Special events that are conducted with a written permit issued by
the Chief of Police.
      (5)   Any personal use vehicle or device licensed and registered pursuant
to the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., shall be permitted
on any city street or parking lot/area.
      (6)   Any employee of any unit of government may operate any personal use
vehicle or device owned by a unit of government in the course of his or her
duties on any city property.
(Prior Code, § 43.19) (Ord. 04-5-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.20 NON-SMOKING ENVIRONMENT.
   The city does hereby concur in the policy as set forth by the Smoke Free
Illinois Act, being 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq., that tobacco smoke is annoying,
harmful and dangerous to human beings and a hazard to public health. Pursuant
to the requirements of the Smoke Free Illinois Act, no person shall smoke on
premises owned and controlled by the city, nor in a public place which is any
enclosed indoor area used by the public or serving as a place of work.
(Prior Code, § 43.20) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.21 REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES.
   No remote control device shall be operated on any city sidewalk, street,
parking lot or park.
(Prior Code, § 43.21) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.22 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the term TRUANT means:
         (a)   Any person between the ages of seven and 16 who is subject to
compulsory school attendance and who is absent, without valid cause, from
school attendance during a regular school day or any portion thereof or during
a required summer school program established pursuant to 105 ILCS 5/10-22.33B;
and
         (b)   Any person who is 16, 17 or 18 years of age and enrolled in a
public school and who is absent, without valid cause, from school attendance
during a regular school day or any portion thereof or during a required summer
school program.
      (2)   The following children are not considered TRUANT:
         (a)   Any child attending a private or parochial school where children
are taught the branches of education taught to children or corresponding age
and grade in the public schools, and where the instruction of the child in the
branches of education is in the English language;
         (b)   Any child who is not enrolled in a public school and is
instructed by a legal guardian in a manner equal or superior to that obtainable
in the public schools;
         (c)   Any child who is physically or mentally unable to attend school,
such disability being certified to either Marengo Community High School
District 154 or Marengo-Union Elementary School District 165 (hereinafter
“school district”) truancy officer or the County Regional Office of Education
truancy officer, by a licensed physician or by a Christian Science practitioner
residing in the state and listed with the Christian Science Journal; or who is
excused for temporary absence for cause by the principal or teacher of the
school which the child attends; the exemptions in this division (A)(2) do not
apply to any female who is pregnant or the mother of one or more children,
except where a female is unable to attend school due to a complication arising
from her pregnancy and the existence of such complication is certified to the
school district truancy officer or the County Regional Office of Education
truancy officer by a competent physician;
         (d)   Any child necessarily and lawfully employed according to the
provisions of the law regulating child labor may be excused from attendance at
school by the school district Superintendent of Schools or by the Regional
Superintendent of Schools, on certification of the facts by and the
recommendation of either the school district Board of Education. If a part-time
continuation school is run in either school district, children so excused shall
attend the continuation school at least eight hours each week;
         (e)   Any child over 12 and under 14 years of age while in attendance
at confirmation classes;
         (f)   Any child absent from school on a particular day or days or at a
particular time of day for the reason that he or she is unable to attend
classes or to participate in any examination, study or work requirements on a
particular day or days or at a particular time of day, because the tenets of
his or her religion forbid secular activity on a particular day or days or at a
particular time of day; and
         (g)   Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes
beyond the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school
without parental or legal guardian permission shall not constitute TRUANCY if
permission for such absence has been obtained from the parent or legal guardian
and such permission is submitted to the proper school authorities within 24
hours of such absence.
   (B)   Truancy prohibited. Upon a complaint signed by an authorized school
district official, it shall be unlawful for any person to be truant. Any person
who is truant shall be guilty of the offense of truancy and be subject to the
penalties hereinafter set forth in this section.
   (C)   Permitting minor to be truant prohibited. It is unlawful for a parent,
legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or her
custody or control to violate this section.
(Prior Code, § 43.22) (Ord. 06-5-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.23 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   It shall be unlawful, and constitute the offense of public indecency, for
any person to defecate or urinate on any public sidewalk, street, alley, park,
right-of-way or any other publicly owned property, or anywhere in the city in
public view.
(Prior Code, § 43.23) (Ord. 19-4-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.24 THEFT.
   (A)   Retail theft. It shall be unlawful to commit the offense of retail
theft of property, not exceeding $300 in value. A person commits the offense of
retail theft when such person knowingly:
      (1)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be
carried away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered
for sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining
such merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of
the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full
retail value of such merchandise;
      (2)   Alters, transfers or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (3)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale, in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise;
      (4)   Under-rings a sale with the intention of depriving the merchant of
the full retail value of the merchandise;
      (5)   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail merchandise
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart;
      (6)   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
      (7)   If any persons:
         (a)   Conceals upon their person or among their belongings,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
         (b)   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for
receiving payment for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment.
   (B)   General theft. It shall be unlawful to commit the offense of theft of
property not exceeding $500 in value. A person commits the offense of theft
when such person knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property, knowing the property to have
been stolen or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her
to believe that the property was stolen.
(Prior Code, § 43.24) (Ord. 19-4-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.25 CANNABIS.
   (A)   Possession.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under 21 years of age to knowingly
possess any amount of cannabis, as defined in the Cannabis Control Act, 720
ILCS 550/1 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for anyone 21 years of age or older and
a resident of the state to knowingly possess more than: 30 grams of cannabis
flower; 500 milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused product; and five
grams of cannabis concentrate.
         (b)   These possession limits are to be considered cumulative.
      (3)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for anyone 21 years of age or older and
not a resident of the state to knowingly possess more than: 15 grams of
cannabis flower; 250 milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused product;
and two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate.
         (b)   These possession limits are to be considered cumulative.
   (B)   Exemptions. The prohibitions in division (A) above shall not apply
when otherwise allowed under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program
Act, 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, 410 ILCS
705/1-1 et seq.
   (C)   Use. No person shall use cannabis in or about any public place or
places. For the purpose of this division (C), PUBLIC PLACE means any place
where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others. PUBLIC
PLACE includes all parts of buildings owned in whole or part, or leased, by the
state, the city or a unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE includes all areas
in a park, recreation area, wildlife area or playgrounds owned in whole or in
part, leased or managed by the state, the city or a unit of local government.
(Prior Code, § 43.25) (Ord. 20-01-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise provided in this penalty section, any person,
firm or corporation violating any section of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $25 for each offense and be responsible for the city’s cost of
prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any property damaged
or destroyed or person injured.
      (2)   A defendant who has been found guilty and ordered to pay a fine
under this chapter may petition the court to convert all or part of the fine
into court-approved public or community service, to be performed as directed by
and to be verified by the Department of Court Services.
      (3)   The public or community service work assigned shall be, whenever
available, for the benefit of the city, or agency or department thereof. If no
public or community service work opportunities are available for the benefit of
the city or agency or department thereof, the defendant shall be assigned to
perform public or community service work for a not-for-profit organization or
agency which provides service to or otherwise benefits the citizens of the
city.
      (4)   One hour of public or community service shall be equivalent to $5
of fine, upon conversion.
      (5)   Neither restitution obligations nor mandatory court costs or
attorneys’ fees may be converted to or discharged by public or community
service work.
      (6)   Neither the city nor any agency or department thereof, the
Department of Court Services, public or community service programs or site, nor
any official or employee thereof acting in the course of their official duties
shall be liable for any injury or loss a person may receive while performing
public or community service as ordered by the court pursuant to this penalty,
nor shall they be liable for any tortious acts of any person performing public
or community service, except for willful, wanton misconduct or gross negligence
on the part of such governmental unit, official or employee.
      (7)   No person assigned to a public or community service program shall
be considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the city, the county or
not-for-profit organization or agency be obligated to provide any compensation
to such person.
(Prior Code, § 43.26)
   (B)   Any person violating §
131.01 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees
incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.01)
   (C)   Any person violating §
131.02 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees
incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.02)
   (D)   Any person violating §
131.03 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees
incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.03)
   (E)   Any person violating §
131.04 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for reimbursing the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees
incurred by the city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.04)
   (F)   Any person violating §
131.05 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any property damaged
or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.05)
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
131.08, or willfully or knowingly violates any of its provisions, shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which an offense
occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 43.08)
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §
131.09 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner of any
property damaged or destroyed.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall preclude such additional civil remedies
available to the person whose property has been damaged or destroyed. Each day
any violation or any provision of this section shall continue shall constitute
a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 43.09)
   (I)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.15(B) is guilty of a petty offense and for the first offense shall be fined
$200, $400 for the second offense in a 12-month period, and $600 for the third
or any subsequent offense in a 12-month period and be responsible for the
city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
      (2)   If a minor violates §
131.15(C), the minor shall be guilty of a petty offense and may be fined $25 or
sentenced to 15 hours of community service for the first offense. If a second
violation occurs within a 12-month period after the first offense, the fine
shall be $50 and 25 hours of community service. For a third or subsequent
violation that occurs within a 12-month period after the first offense, the
fine shall be $100 and 30 hours of community service. If there is a second or
subsequent violation not within a 12-month time period after the first
violation, a fine of $25 or 15 hours of community service shall be assessed.
For any violation, the violator shall be responsible for the city’s cost of
prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
      (3)   (a)   Except for §
131.15(D)(2), any person who knowingly violates or shall knowingly cause the
violation of any provision of §
131.15(D) shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be fined pursuant
to 730 ILCS 5/5-4.5-65(e). The violator shall be responsible for the city’s
cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
         (b)   Any person who knowingly violates or shall knowingly cause the
violation of §
131.15(D)(2) shall be guilty of a petty offense for which the offender shall be
fined as follows: for the first offense, not less than $100 or more than $500;
for a second offense within a two-year period of the first offense, not less
than $250 or more than $600; and for a third or subsequent offense within a
two-year period of the first offense, not less than $500 or more than $1,000.
In addition, the violator shall be responsible for the city’s cost of
prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
      (4)   (a)   If a minor violates §
131.15(E)(1) or (E)(4), the minor shall be guilty of a petty offense and may be
fined $25 or sentenced to 15 hours of community service for the first offense.
If a second violation occurs within a 12-month period after the first offense,
the fine shall be $50 and 25 hours of community service. For a third or
subsequent violation that occurs within a 12-month period after the first
offense, the fine shall be $100 and 30 hours of community service. If there is
a second or subsequent violation not within a 12-month time period after the
first violation, a fine of $25 or 15 hours of community service shall be
assessed. For any violation, the violator shall be responsible for the city’s
cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
         (b)   Any person who violates §
131.15(E)(2), (E)(3), (E)(6) or (E)(7) shall be guilty of a petty offense for
which the offender shall be fined as follows: for the first offense, not less
than $100 or more than $500; for a second offense within a two-year period of
the first offense, not less than $250 or more than $600; and for a third or
subsequent offense within a two-year period of the first offense, not less than
$500 or more than $1,000. In addition, the violator shall be responsible for
the city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 43.15)
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
131.16 shall be fined in not more than $500 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall
be considered a separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be
made to any property damaged or destroyed or person injured.
(Prior Code, § 43.16)
   (K)   Whoever violates any provision of §
131.17 shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be responsible
for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner of any
property damaged or destroyed. Nothing herein shall preclude such additional
civil remedies available to the person whose property has been damaged or
destroyed. Each day any violation or any provision of this section shall
continue shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 43.17)
   (L)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.18 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 43.18)
   (M)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
131.19 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500, for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which the
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 43.19)
   (N)   Upon a complaint being signed by an authorized school district
official, any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
131.22 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
such violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 43.22)
   (O)   Any person violating any provision of §
131.23 shall be fined pursuant to §
10.99 for each offense in a sum not less than $100 and be responsible for the
city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(Prior Code, § 43.23)
   (P)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
131.24(A) shall be guilty and subject to a fine pursuant to §
10.99 of not less than $100.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §
131.24(B) shall be guilty and subject to a fine pursuant to §
10.99, not less than $100.
(Prior Code, § 43.24)
   (Q)   (1)   Whoever violates §
131.25(A)(1) shall be fined not less than $100 for each offense and be
responsible for the city’s cost of prosecution, including attorneys’ fees
incurred by the city. Sections 131.25(A)(2) and (A)(3) shall be fined: not less
than $100 for first offense, $200 for any second offense in a 12-month period;
and not less than $300 for any third offense in a 12-month period, for each
offense and be responsible for the city’s cost of prosecution, including
attorneys’ fees incurred by the city.
      (2)   Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to the owner of any
property damaged or destroyed. Nothing herein shall preclude such additional
civil remedies available to the person whose property has been damaged or
destroyed. Each day any violation or any provision of this section shall
continue shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 43.25)
(Ord. 04-5-2, passed - -; Ord. 08-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 10-8-2, passed - -;
Ord. 15-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 19-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 20-01-01, passed - -;
Ord. 23-5-2, passed 5-8-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   TREES AND LANDSCAPING
      
154.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
155.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
156.   DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
      
157.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
158.   ZONING CODE
      
159.   PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of building code
   
150.02   Amendments
   
150.03   Building permit application
   
150.04   Professional fees
   
150.05   Permit schedule/construction schedule
   
150.06   Municipal property damage deposits
   
150.07   Excavation in the right-of-way
   
150.08   Grading, seeding and driveway deposits
   
150.09   Remote water meter readers
   
150.10   Certificate of use and occupancy
   
150.11   Local rules
   
150.12   Architectural design requirements
   
150.13   Elevator/conveyance inspections
   
150.14   Permit and reinspection, added, partial inspection and replacement
fees
   
150.15   Permit application appeals
   
150.16   Rights continued
   
150.17   Fee schedule
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The following list of codes is hereby adopted as part of the building code
of the city for the control of buildings and structures as therein provided in
each code. All of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms
contained in each code described below are hereby referred to, adopted and made
a part hereof as if fully set forth in this code:
   (A)   International Residential Code, 2021 Edition;
   (B)   International Building Code, 2021 Edition;
   (C)   International Fire Code, 2021 Edition;
   (D)   International Mechanical Code, 2021 Edition;
   (E)   International Fuel Gas Code, Current Edition;
   (F)   International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition;
   (G)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021 Edition;
   (H)   International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition;
   (I)   National Electric Code, 2020 Edition;
   (J)   The State Plumbing Code, latest edition;
   (K)   State Accessibility Code, latest edition;
   (L)   NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, edition per state law; and
   (M)   International Energy Conservation Code, edition per state law.
(Prior Code, § 24.01) (Ord. 07-2-3, passed - -; Ord. 09-12-6, passed - -; Ord.
17-11-2, passed - -; Ord. 25-2-3, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 150.02 AMENDMENTS.
   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms
contained in each code described in this section are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set forth in this code, except as
provided below.
   (A)   Amendments to the 2021 International Residential Building Code for
One- and Two Family Dwellings Amendments are as follows:
      General - Section R101.1 Title, insert: “City of Marengo, McHenry County,
Illinois.”
      Permits - Section R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit.
      Insert: “...Permits shall not be required for the following unless
otherwise required by the Marengo City Code:” Under subsection, Building:
      Delete: Items 1, 2, 5, 9, and 10.
      Insert: Table R301.2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
a. Ground snow load:                 30 pounds per square foot
b. Wind speed:                       107 mph
c. Seismic design category:          Design category B
d. Weathering:                       Severe
e. Frost line depth:                 42 inches below grade
f. Termite:                          Moderate to heavy
g. Decay:                            Slight to moderate
h. Winter design temperature:        0°F
i. Ice shield underlayment required: Yes
j. Flood hazards:                    Confirm with Engineering Dept.
k. Air freezing index:               2000
l. Mean annual temperature:          50°F.
 
      Section R302.3 shall read as follows:
      Dwelling units in two-family dwellings and townhouses shall be separated
from each other by wall and floor assemblies having not less than a 2-hour
fire-resistance rating where tested in accordance with ASTM E119, UL 263 or
Section 703.2.2 of the International Building Code. Such separation shall be
provided regardless of whether a lot line exists between the two dwelling units
or not. Fire-resistance-rated floor/ceiling and wall assemblies shall extend to
and be tight against the exterior wall, and wall assemblies shall extend from
the foundation to the underside of the roof sheathing.
      Exceptions:
      1. A fire-resistance rating of 1/2 hour shall be permitted in buildings
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
with NFPA 13D.
      Section R302.5.1 is amended as follows:
      Openings from a private garage directly into a room used for sleeping
purposes are not permitted. Openings between the garage and the residence shall
be equipped with a minimum one (1) hour fire-rated door.
      Section R302.6 is amended as follows:
      The garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic area by
not less than 5/8” inch type X gypsum board applied to the garage side.
      Section 302.13 and R313.1-R313.2.1 is deleted in its entirety.
      Insert at end of R314.3 #3: and within crawl spaces that contain
equipment.
      Sections R402, R403, R404, R405, R406 and R504 are revised by deleting
all references to “wood foundations.” Section R506.1 is amended as follows:
      General. Concrete slab-on-ground floors shall be a minimum of three and
one-half (3-1/2”) inches thick (for expansive soils, see section R403.1.8). The
minimum thickness for the required slab in a crawl space shall be two (2”)
inches.
      Insert at the end of R1006.5: All factory-built fireplaces shall have a
firebox enclosure of one hour rating with all corresponding draft stop.
      Chapters 11 through 43 are deleted in their entirety.
   (B)   Amendments to the 2021 International Building Code are as follows:
      General - Section A, 101.1 Title.
      Insert: “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois”
      General - Section A 101.4.3 Plumbing.
      Delete: “...International Plumbing...”
      Insert: “...Illinois State Plumbing Code, current edition...”
      General - Section A 101.4.6 Energy.
      Delete: “...International Energy Conservation Code...”
      Insert: “...Illinois Energy Conservation Code, current edition...”
      General Section A 103.1 Creation of Enforcement Agency.
      Insert: “.. City of Marengo Building Department”
      Permits - Section A 105.2 Work Exempt from Permit.
      Insert: “Permits shall not be required for the following unless otherwise
required by the City of Marengo City Code:”
      Building: Delete: Items 1, 2, and 12.
      Submittal Documents - Section A 107.1 General.
      Delete: “...two or more sets with each permit application.”
      Insert: “...two or more hard copy (paper) sets and one digital/electronic
set with each permit application.”
      Automatic Sprinkler System. 903.1 General. Delete: First paragraph.
      Insert: Systems shall comply with this section. New construction activity
(excluding the remodeling or alteration of existing buildings and structures
and not involving a change in use) for all use groups having a fire area
exceeding five thousand (5,000) or more square feet shall be required to
install an automatic sprinkler system as follows: When additions are made to an
existing building or structure have an existing fire area of five thousand
(5,000) square feet or less, and when such additions result in the building or
structure having an aggregated fire area of seventy-five-hundred (7,500) or
more square feet, an automatic sprinkler system is required and shall be
provided.
      Chapters 11 is deleted in its entirety.
      General - Section 2701.1 Scope.
      Delete: “...provisions of the ICC Electrical Code.”
      Insert: “...provisions of the National Electrical Code/the edition as
adopted by the City of Marengo.”
      General - Section 2901.1 Scope.
      Delete: “...the International Plumbing Code...”
      Insert: “...the Illinois State Plumbing Code Current Edition...”
      Signs - Section 3107.1 General.
      Insert: “All signs shall be subject to the applicable regulations
contained in the City of Marengo Sign Ordinance which shall apply wherever in
conflict with this code.”
   (C)   Amendments to the 2021 International Fire Code are as follows:
      General - Section 101.1 Title.
      Insert (second line): “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois”
      General - Section 101.6 Referenced Codes and Standards.
      Insert: “101.6 Referenced Codes and Standards. Where the following codes
and standards are indicated within the International Fire Code they shall be
replaced as indicated:
         (1)   International Plumbing Code - replace with the Illinois State
Plumbing Code (latest edition).
         (2)   ICC Electrical Code - replace with the National Electrical Code
(the edition as adopted by the City of Marengo)”
      Code Compliance Agency- Section 103.1 Creation of Agency.
      Insert: City of Marengo.
      Violations - Section 112.4 Violation Penalties. Insert: Offense
“misdemeanor.”
      Insert: Amount “$500.00.”
      Definitions- Section 502.1 Fire Lane. Insert: “Other than fire apparatus,
access roads shall be constructed of an asphalt or concrete surface capable of
supporting a vehicle weight of 75,000 pounds and shall be of a design approved
by the City Engineer.”
      Automatic Sprinkler System- 903.1 General. Delete: First paragraph.
      Insert: 903.1 General. Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this
section. New construction activity (excluding the remodeling or alteration of
existing buildings and structures and not involving a change in use) for all
use groups having a fire area exceeding five-thousand (5,000) or more square
feet shall be required to install an automatic sprinkler system, except as
follows: When additions are made to an existing building or structure having an
existing fire area or five-thousand (5,000) square feet or less, and when such
additions result in the building or structure having an aggregated fire area of
seventy-five-hundred (7,500) or more square feet, an automatic sprinkler system
is required and shall be provided.
   (D)   Amendments to the 2021 International Mechanical Code are as follows:
      General - Section 101.1 Title.
      Insert (second line): “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois” Permits
- Section 106.5.2 Fee Schedule.
      Delete in entirety. Insert: “The fees for mechanical work shall be as set
forth in the City of Marengo City Ordinance, as amended.”
      Permits - Section 106.5.3 Fee Refunds Deleted in entirety.
      Violations - Section 108.4 Violation Penalties.
      Insert: Offense “misdemeanor.”
      Insert: Amount “$500.00.”
      Violations - Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders.
      Insert: “...$25.00 nor more than $500.00 dollars.”
      Insert: “... shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
not less than $250.00 or double the permit fee, whichever is greater.”
   (E)   Amendments to the 2021 International Fuel Gas Code are as follows:
      General - Section 101.1 Title.
      Insert (second line): “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois”
      Permits - Section 109 Fee Schedule.
      Delete in entirety. Insert: “The fees for fuel gas mechanical work shall
be as set forth in the Marengo City Code, as amended.”
      Violations - Section 115.4
      Violation Penalties. Insert: Offense “misdemeanor.”
      Insert: Amount “$500.00.”
   (F)   Amendments to the 2021 International Existing Building Code are as
follows:
      General - Section 101.1 Title.
      Insert (second line): “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois”
      Accessibility for Existing Buildings - Section 306.2 Design.
      Insert “...and the alteration and existing buildings provisions of the
Illinois Accessibility Code, latest edition.”
   (G)   Amendments to the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code are as
follows:
      General - Section 101.1 Title.
      Insert (second line): “City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois.”
   (H)   Amendments to the 2021 International Property Maintenance Code are as
follows.
      (1)   All references to the International Plumbing Code are replaced with
the Illinois State Plumbing Code, being I.A.C. Title 77, Part 890. Plumbing
standards and specifications set forth in the most recent edition of the
Illinois State Plumbing Code shall supersede those found in the International
Property Maintenance Code, as herein adopted.
      (2)   All references to the ICC Electrical Code are replaced with
National Electrical Code. Electrical standards and specifications set forth in
the National Electrical Code, 2020 Edition, shall supersede those found in the
International Property Maintenance Code, as herein adopted.
      (3)   All references to the International Zoning Code are replaced with
the zoning regulations set forth in the current edition of the City of Marengo
Zoning Ordinance.
      Section 101.1: Insert: City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois.
      Section 302.4: Insert: eight (8”) inches.
      Section 304.14: Insert: April 1 and October 31.
      Section 602.3: Insert October 1 to April 30.
      Section 602.4: Insert October 1 to April 30.
   (I)   Amendments to the 2020 National Electrical Code are as follows:
      Services- Article 230.1.
      Insert: At the end above ground electrical services must be in galvanized
rigid or intermediate metal conduit only and installed in accordance with the
height and location requirements set forth in the National Security Code.
      Armored Cable- Article 320.l 0 Uses permitted.
      Insert: Type AC cable, commonly referred to as “BX” wire, may be used in
one- and two-family residential dwellings. Wiring in residential buildings
greater than two family shall be in metal conduit. All nonresidential buildings
shall be in metal conduit.
      Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable- Types NM and NMC Article 334.
      Delete: Article 334.
      Insert: The use of non-metallic sheathed cable (types NM, NMC, and NMS),
commonly referred to as “Romex wire” is not allowed within the city except in
the extension of an existing circuit of the same material.
   (J)   Thirty days before the effective date of the new code, the city must
identify the model code being adopted, by title and edition, and any local
amendments and inform the Capital Development Board in writing.
(Prior Code, § 24.02) (Ord. 04-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 07-2-3, passed - -; Ord.
17-11-2, passed - -; Ord. 25-2-3, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or altered until a
building permit is issued by the Building Commissioner. A permit shall not be
issued unless the proposed construction and use of the land comply with the
ordinances of the city.
   (B)   When a complete building permit application is submitted to the
Building Department, the Building Commissioner shall review the application for
code compliance. Should the application comply with the provisions of this
code, a building permit shall be issued. In the event a permit application is
rejected, the reasons shall be put in writing.
   (C)   The following provisions apply to applications for permits.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   The application for a permit shall be in writing using forms
provided by the city. A permit application is not considered complete until all
applicable items of information on said forms have been provided, and all
accompanying information as required in this section has been furnished.
         (b)   A permit may be amended during the course of work according to
the regulations provided for in this chapter and the payment of any applicable
fees. However, any alterations or additions to be made after completion of the
work shall require the issuance of another permit.
         (c)   The city may adopt reasonable administrative procedures for the
processing of permit applications from time to time in order to better carry
out the purposes, intent and regulations of this chapter.
      (2)   Information accompanying permit applications.
         (a)   Each building permit application shall be accompanied by the
following material:
            1.   For multiple-family, commercial and industrial buildings and
build-outs, electronic sets of drawings of the proposed construction. All pages
of said drawings shall be signed and stamped by a state licensed architect or
engineer. Said signatory shall also certify that the submitted plans meet the
minimum standards under all applicable building codes of the city;
            2.   A plat of survey of the lot showing the existing and proposed
building(s), structure(s), underground facilities, easements and driveways, as
well as building footprints on all immediately adjoining lots;
            3.   For single-family, electronic sets of drawings of the proposed
construction. It is recommended that all drawings be signed and stamped by a
state licensed architect or professional engineer;
            4.   For all structures proposed to be constructed over an existing
structure, electronic drawings signed and stamped by a state licensed architect
or professional engineer are required; and
            5.   If the scope of the structural work is minor and limited in
detail, the Building Commissioner shall have the discretion of modifying any
portion of these requirements.
         (b)   The applicant shall provide such additional descriptive
information in drawn or written forms as to the location, use, materials and
design of buildings and structures and appurtenances thereof, and interior or
exterior fixtures, such as, but is not limited to, electrical fixtures,
plumbing fixtures (supply, drain and fixtures), heating and air conditioning
appliances, in addition to the return and supply air duct sizes and locations,
smoke detection devices, light and ventilation schedules, door and window
schedules, truss certificates, manufacturers cut sheets or product
specifications and MSDS sheets.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued to a person who has an outstanding
expired building permit where the permitted work is incomplete; or who is
indebted to the city due to building code violations.
(Prior Code, § 24.03)
§ 150.04 PROFESSIONAL FEES.
   Any person, firm or corporation, upon filing plans for a permit with the
Building Department, shall bear the cost, including, but not limited to, the
fees charged by an architect, attorney, engineer or other professional
assistance when those fees are incurred by the Building Department regarding
any plan submitted to it for review and comment. The permit applicant is
required to complete the reimbursement of fees agreement pursuant to
Chapter 159 if required by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 24.04)
§ 150.05 PERMIT SCHEDULE/CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Beginning construction. Any person or entity issued a building permit
shall commence construction within 90 days of issuance of the building permit.
Should construction not be started within 90 days of issuance, the permit shall
be deemed null and void.
   (B)   Preliminary excavation. No excavation or ground stripping will be
allowed without the express written permission of the Building Commissioner
prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (C)   Spot survey. Upon completion of the building foundation, a spot survey
shall be submitted to the Building Department. The survey shall be certified by
a licensed engineer or land surveyor and reflect the actual location and
elevation of the structure. Completion of the structure shall continue only
after the survey has been approved by the Building Department. If the
foundation is found to be in violation of the approved grading plan, the
builder/owner shall submit a revised grading plan acceptable to the city or
remove the foundation. All fees and charges applicable to any proposal for a
revised grading plan shall be paid by the builder/owner.
   (D)   Expiration of permit. Building permits shall expire if work is not
completed within the following designated periods after a building permit is
issued:
      (1)   New residential/commercial/industrial construction: 12 months;
      (2)   Remodeling and additions; commercial build-outs: six months; and
      (3)   All others: six months.
   (E)   Extension of permit. Prior to the date of expiration, a one-time
extension, not to exceed the original permit length, with the exception of new
construction, for a period of three months, shall be granted. After such time,
a new permit must be obtained to complete the project. For new construction,
the plans require reviewing and payment of applicable permit fees, except
impact fees, as such are defined in Chapter 157, and any ordinance regarding
developmental fees.
   (F)   Lapse in construction. If construction activity is dormant for six
weeks during the permit period, the site must be closed and protected from
risks to the satisfaction of the Building Department, to eliminate any health
and safety risks until construction resumes. The city shall have the right but
not the obligation to secure the construction site to ensure adequate safety to
the general public. All costs of securing said site shall be the responsibility
of the permit applicant.
   (G)   Final inspection. A final inspection by the Building Department will
be required for each permit issued.
   (H)   Permit fee refund. If, after the purchase of a permit and before any
inspections have been done, the permittee requests a refund of permit fees, $50
shall be retained for administrative and plan review services. When the permit
fee is less than $50, or the request is received more than 30 days from the
permit issue date, or inspections or other services have been rendered, no
refund will be given.
   (I)   Construction/project site regulations.
      (1)   Applicability. Persons issued permits pursuant to this chapter and
Chapter 155 shall abide by construction/project site regulations imposed in
this division (I), §
150.11 and any applicable site regulations in
Chapter 155.
      (2)   Condition of permit. It is a condition of a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter, and the County Stormwater Management Ordinance, to maintain
construction/project sites in a reasonably safe, clean and orderly condition as
outlined in this division (I).
      (3)   Site regulations. Construction equipment, tools and materials may
be placed, parked or stored on private property subject to the following
conditions.
         (a)   A valid permit pursuant to this chapter, or the County
Stormwater Management Ordinance, exists for construction, building, grading or
applicable work.
         (b)   The equipment, tools and materials at issue are actively in
operation and/or have been so utilized in the construction/project site in a
continuous manner.
         (c)   The equipment, tools and materials at issue are stored in an
orderly, compact manner or inside storage facilities pursuant to division (B)
above.
         (d)   The equipment, tools and materials at issue are secured.
         (e)   The storage of equipment, tools and materials is to take place
at least 300 feet from the nearest dwelling irrespective of the zoning
classification of the building site. If the equipment, tools and materials are
to be stored less than 300 feet from the nearest dwelling due to site size,
conditions and/or configurations, the owner and/or individual or business using
said equipment must present a storage plan for approval by the Building
Department at the time of permit application. The owner and/or individual or
business must comply with the terms of the plan as approved during the term of
the permit.
         (f)   For purposes of this division (I), equipment, tools and
materials may be stored in approved trailers and/or storage facilities in
compliance with ordinance, annexation agreement and/or project requirements.
         (g)   Construction, equipment, tools and materials shall not be
placed, parked or stored in a construction/project site for a period of 30 days
or more following completion of a project.
         (h)   For purposes of this division (I), equipment, tools and
materials shall include, but not be limited to, machinery, trailers, vehicles,
hand tools, formworks and any construction materials.
      (4)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for a person engaged in work for
which a permit has been issued to fail to comply with the regulations of this
division (I) and to cause, maintain or permit the littering of any public or
private property with mud, dust, brush, stumps, tree limbs, construction or
other type of debris, such as building excavation or ground piles; nor shall a
person cause damage to any public street, sidewalk, alley, curb, gutter, sewage
system or property.
      (5)   Enforcement. The Building Department is authorized and the permit
holder shall allow the inspecting officer to enter the property where the
construction equipment, tools and materials are being stored for the purpose of
inspection to determine the substance of any potential violation regarding
storage of such items and/or condition of the construction/project site. The
inspecting officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall
file the same in the office of the Building Commissioner. If the inspecting
officer determines that a violation of this section exists, the city shall
serve notice of the violation to the property owner and/or individuals,
contractor or other acting for and/or on behalf of the developer and/or owner.
Such notice shall request the removal or abatement of said conditions within a
period of seven calendar days. If the violations and conditions are not cured
within the seven-calendar-day period notice, the violation shall be deemed a
nuisance.
      (6)   Cost of enforcement. In addition to the penalties imposed pursuant
to this chapter, the cost of abating the conditions by the city shall be
collected as a debt from the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the condition pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13 or 5/11-31-1 or other
applicable section of the state municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 24.05) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY DAMAGE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Before commencing any new residential or commercial construction for
which a building permit is required and which is not in an approved project
covered by an acceptable letter of credit or performance bond for which a
building permit is required or a project that disturbs soil in the public
right-of-way, the applicant shall make a cash deposit with the city to cover
the cost of repairing any damage which may be done to city property. The
deposit shall be in the amount of $1,000.
   (B)   The deposit shall be held by the city, at its discretion, for a period
of not more than two years. If, after the two years, no damage has been
incurred to city property, the total amount of the deposit shall be returned to
the party making the deposit upon request. Any deposit not claimed within seven
years shall be deemed forfeited pursuant to state statutes.
   (C)   In the event the city property sustains damage, that portion of the
deposit necessary to effect repairs shall be retained by the city; the balance
shall be returned to the party making the deposit.
   (D)   If the cost of repairs to the city property exceeds the amount of the
deposit, such additional costs shall be charged to the owner of the property
and/or the person issued the building permit, and it shall become immediately
due and payable upon the owner receiving written notice of the amount of which
the cost of repairs exceeds the deposit.
(Prior Code, § 24.06) (Ord. 05-2-2, passed - -; Ord. 07-1-10, passed - -)
§ 150.07 EXCAVATION IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Wherever any alteration, construction or disruption of soil is done in any
public right-of-way, the following conditions must be met.
   (A)   The applicant shall install, pursuant to Chapter 155, soil and erosion
control measures prior to the start of construction.
   (B)   All disturbed soils shall be restored by the applicant with sod and/or
seed blankets inspected by the Public Works Department and/or Building
Department prior to final approval of the project.
   (C)   A cash deposit shall be made to the city to ensure restoration of the
right-of-way. If the right-of-way is not restored to the city’s satisfaction,
the city will use the cash deposit for the restoration. Deposits required are
as follows:
      (1)   Street opening, which is required any time it is necessary to cut
into paved surfaces in streets and alleys, $1,500; and
      (2)   Sidewalk, which is required when a sidewalk is removed or torn up,
$1,000.
(Prior Code, § 24.07)
§ 150.08 GRADING, SEEDING AND DRIVEWAY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Should there be outstanding weather-related items to be completed,
prior to final inspection for a certificate of use and occupancy between
November 1 and April 30, a cash deposit or letter of credit of $2,000 shall be
deposited with the city by the permit applicant. Should the permit applicant
have a good standing letter of credit on file, the cash deposit is not
required.
   (B)   Grading, seeding and driveway work, guaranteed by a cash deposit or
letter of credit, shall be completed by the following June 30.
   (C)   (1)   In the event the required grading, seeding and driveway are not
completed by the following June 30, the city shall use the cash deposit or
proceeds from the letter of credit to have the work completed and/or issue
fines and violations pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   If the work is completed within the required time period, the total
amount of the cash deposit shall be returned to the party making the cash
deposit or the letter of credit released.
   (D)   If conditions preclude grading and seeding between June 30 and October
30 and an occupancy is required in that period, a cash deposit may be made with
the city for up to 45 days if approved by both the Building Commissioner and
the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 24.09)
§ 150.09 REMOTE WATER METER READERS.
   For all new construction, the water meter shall be installed no later than
the rough inspection. The permit holder is responsible to ensure the meter is
protected from damage during construction. A metered reading of the water will
be taken after the final inspection of the project, and the permit holder shall
be liable for payment of said metered water prior to the issuance of a
certificate of use and occupancy. Prior to requesting a certificate of use and
occupancy, proof of payment in full for the water must be provided to the
Building Department.
(Prior Code, § 24.10)
§ 150.10 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or altered shall be
occupied or used in any way until a certificate of use and occupancy has been
issued by the Building Commissioner. The certificate of use and occupancy shall
be issued only after the Building Commissioner makes a finding that the
building or structure has been erected or structurally altered in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter and other health and building laws and in
accordance with the building permit.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy, the
following conditions must be met.
      (1)   The builder/owner shall certify, by means of a professional
engineer’s or land surveyor’s statement, that the elevations of the completed
project are in accordance with the grading plan approved by the city.
      (2)   A cash deposit or letter of credit in the amount of $1,000 per
item, if applicable pursuant to §
150.08, has been deposited with the city.
      (3)   The structure must be completed pursuant to this code.
      (4)   Temporary use and occupancy permits shall only be issued for a
specific time to allow completion of work halted by weather-related conditions
specified in §§
150.08 and
152.18(A).
      (5)   The issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy shall be subject
to §§
150.03 and
152.19.
(Prior Code, § 24.11) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11 LOCAL RULES.
   (A)   Building site rules.
      (1)   All approved permits issued by the City Building Department must
have the permit visible on site. In addition to the foregoing, each new
construction lot must have the address and lot number posted on weather-
resistant material not to exceed two square feet. Such posting shall remain on
the lot until a certificate of use and occupancy has been issued. In the case
where such permit card is not accessible, the inspection will not be conducted
and a reinspection fee will be incurred by the applicant. Reinspection fees are
found in §
150.17.
      (2)   Each lot shall be furnished with a proper container or containers
for the deposit of construction debris and refuse and, if applicable, for
recycling of discarded construction materials. Such containers shall be secured
so as to prevent the blowing or scattering of materials and shall be emptied
regularly and not allowed to overflow. No container shall be located on a city
right-of-way. The contractor shall be responsible for litter and debris pick-up
and containment on the property.
      (3)   Prior to beginning work, a temporary gravel drive must be installed
from the street into the lot in order to provide access to the lot for
inspections. Culverts must be set in place in accordance with §
152.18(A) before gravel is installed. The temporary drive shall consist of six
inches of gravel base that extends at least half of the distance from the
street towards the garage portion of the dwelling, or a minimum of 50 feet, and
shall have a minimum width of ten feet.
      (4)   Property identification shall be posted on each lot prior to
excavation and remain through final inspection. Materials used for said
identification shall not fade and permit the attachment of inspection reports.
      (5)   Working hours for construction relating to any approved building
permit shall comply with the provisions of §
131.08.
      (6)   All permit holders shall keep vegetation in compliance with the
provisions of §
92.08 and any applicable construction/project site regulations in §
92.05.
   (B)   Street signs. Temporary street signs made of weather-resistant
materials and lettering identifying the streets in a new subdivision shall be
erected before beginning any construction activity on any lot. Said signs shall
remain posted and maintained in good repair until permanent street signs are
erected as provided for in
Chapter 157.
   (C)   Use of streets and lots during construction.
      (1)   It shall be prohibited to occupy any traveled portion of a paved
street or right-of-way with construction materials, construction vehicles or
construction material delivery or storage vehicles. Temporary blockage of a
street by a construction vehicle shall be limited as governed by city traffic
regulations.
      (2)   No construction materials shall be placed so as to render
inaccessible or subject to damage any fire hydrant, manhole, b-box, catch basin
or similar structure, or so as to obstruct culverts or street gutters to
prevent the proper flow of stormwater. Any damage caused by construction and/or
landscaping activity to said structures shall be repaired at the applicant’s
expense. Said structures are subject to inspection at the time construction
and/or landscaping is completed, and a certificate of use and occupancy may be
withheld by the city until repairs are properly made.
      (3)   Streets adjacent to building sites shall be regularly cleaned of
dirt and mud deposits.
      (4)   The washing out of any waste material from trucks, including, but
not limited to, concrete and dirt, is prohibited in any city right-of-way or
public or private drainage swale, similar stormwater conveyance or on any other
private lot or public property.
      (5)   Driving over swales or ditches to access lots is prohibited. Any
damage caused to ditches, shoulders, pavement and related vegetation from
construction activity shall be the responsibility of the building permit
applicant to repair, and the city may issue a stop work order in addition to
its other remedies in order to achieve compliance with this rule.
      (6)   The city at all times reserves the right to stipulate and direct
the manner and street network in which construction traffic may access a
building site.
   (D)   Overhead sewers. All new buildings and additions with basements, half
basements or a room or a floor below the grade of the adjacent street shall
have sanitary wastes discharged into a gas-tight covered and vented sump from
which the waste shall be limited and discharged into a sanitary waste drain by
automatic pumping equipment. The building drain shall come through the wall
above the floor and have a sealed ejector basin.
   (E)   Separation of stormwater and wastewater.
      (1)   Legislative intent. The intent of this division (E) is to protect
the public health and safety by requiring the separation of stormwater flows
from sanitary sewer flows, as more specifically provided in this chapter and in
this code. For the purpose of this division (E), the term SUMP PUMP is used in
connection with stormwater, and the term ejector pump is used in connection
with wastewater, although it is common parlance to also refer to sump pumps as
part of a sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Footing and foundation drains, sump pump(s), downspout(s)
extensions. Sump pumps and downspout extensions installed to receive and
discharge groundwater or stormwater shall be connected to a storm sewer system
or discharged to approved drainage ditches or swales. The sump pump/ downspout
discharge may be fitted with an extension; provided, that: the outlet of the
discharge must not be located nearer than six feet to the property line; and
the flow from the discharge extension must be oriented in the direction of the
approved drainage ditch or swale and not oriented to discharge said groundwater
or stormwater directly onto adjacent properties. If an underground storm sewer
system is available, such discharge shall be to the system rather than to
another option, except that the city may, at its discretion, upon application
and review, approve discharges into stormwater detention or retention ponds,
lakes, wetlands, streams or other conveying bodies of water, subject to such
terms and conditions as it deems appropriate or necessary to protect said
conveyances.
      (3)   Grease traps. A grease trap, if required by the State Plumbing
Code, being I.A.C. Title 77, Part 890, as amended, shall be installed in
accordance with §
50.34.
(Prior Code, § 24.12) (Ord. 05-8-2, passed - -; Ord. 05-11-4, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12 ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The following standards are intended to enhance the appearance of
buildings and promote a high quality of design in order to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The intent of these standards are to:
         (a)   Encourage greater design compatibility with surrounding areas
and establish a precedent for high-quality design in areas with no established
character;
         (b)   Achieve greater architectural variation and interest through
standards for the design of roofs, exterior walls and the use of exterior
finish materials;
         (c)   Encourage greater architectural cohesiveness and compatibility
within new developments of multiple buildings; and
         (d)   Reduce the negative visual impact of features and site
improvements, such as mechanical equipment.
      (2)   These standards are intended to be applied together with other
development standards, including, but not limited to,
Chapter 157,
Chapter 158 and city building codes.
   (B)   General application.
      (1)   New construction. These standards shall apply to new construction
of buildings and structures as specified herein.
      (2)   Improvements to existing structures and development sites.
         (a)   These standards shall apply to existing buildings only when a
proposed building expansion exceeds 25% of the existing floor area measured on
a cumulative basis starting from the date of adoption of this section.
         (b)   It is intended that a building expansion subject to these
standards be reasonably integrated with the existing structure or site
condition consistent with these standards.
         (c)   These standards shall not be construed to necessitate
improvements to existing buildings or site conditions beyond those necessary to
integrate the proposed improvements with existing conditions in a manner
consistent with these standards.
      (3)   Development of permit applications. These standards shall not apply
to any complete development, zoning or building permit application submitted or
approved prior to the adoption of these standards.
      (4)   Exemption for historic buildings. These standards shall not apply
to historical structures as designated by federal, state or local historic
preservation commissions for altered or restored structures. Such alterations
shall be subject to review by the City Historical Preservation Commission.
   (C)   Compliance standards. Compliance with the standards set forth in this
section is mandatory, unless a variance is granted pursuant to
Chapter 158.
   (D)   Application and appeals. Persons shall submit an application to the
Building Commissioner who shall review said application pursuant to the
standards in this section. The Building Commissioner will issue a decision
either approving the building permit or denying the permit for noncompliance.
Any applicant that has submitted an application for a building permit that has
been denied due to noncompliance of this section may appeal the decision to the
City Planning and Zoning Commission. Such appeal shall be in writing to the
Administrator and must accompany a complete formal application for a hearing
before the Planning and Zoning Commission with all applicable fees associated
therewith. Hearings shall be scheduled for the next regularly scheduled
Planning and Zoning Commission meeting on the third Monday of each month, but
shall be subject to agenda limitations. In the event of a full agenda, the
meeting shall be scheduled for no later than the following meeting. The
Planning and Zoning Commission shall reach a decision within 30 days from the
date of the hearing.
   (E)   Commercial (non-industrial) architectural standards.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   The following standards shall apply to retail, office,
institutional and other commercial buildings located in business zoned or
designated areas, including, but not limited to, the business zoning districts.
However, business or commercially designated areas developed pursuant to a
planned unit development or special use permit may be subject to deviations
from the standards prescribed in this section.
         (b)   It is intended that these standards apply to the primary facade
of the building and that all sides of building, where visible from public
rights-of-way and private roads or service drives or adjacent residential
neighborhoods, shall include design characteristics and materials consistent
with those of the primary facade, except as provided in division (E)(2) below.
Also, standards specified in division (F) below shall be limited to facade and
walls as specified in that section.
      (2)   Design compatibility.
         (a)   Building design shall contribute to the special or unique
characteristics of an area and/or development through the use of predominant
building massing and scale, building materials, architectural elements and
color.
         (b)   Design compatibility shall be achieved through techniques such
as the repetition of roof lines, the use of similar proportions in building
mass and outdoor spaces, similar relationships to the street, similar window
and door patterns and/or the use of building materials that have color shades
and textures similar to those existing in the immediate area of the proposed
development.
         (c)   Where there is no established consistent neighborhood character
or unifying theme, or where it is not desirable to continue the existing
character because it does not reflect a design theme consistent with the
architectural standards as described herein and/or as reflected in the city’s
comprehensive plan, the proposed development shall be designed to establish an
attractive image and set a standard of quality for future developments and
buildings within the area.
      (3)   Standards. All buildings shall be designed and maintained using the
following building elements with a minimum of one item selected from four of
the five groups below (Group 4 is mandated to be a part of one of the four
selections):
         (a)   Group 1: exterior wall articulation.
            1.   Opening or elements simulating openings that occupy at least
20% of the wall surface area (excluding overhead or dock doors);
            2.   Building bays created by columns, ribs, pilasters or piers or
an equivalent element that divides a wall into smaller proportions or segments
with elements being at least one foot in width, a minimum depth of inches, and
be spaced at intervals no more than 25% of the exterior building walls. For
buildings exceeding 20,000 square feet in gross floor area, such elements shall
be at least 18 inches in width, with a minimum depth of 12 inches, and spaced
at intervals of no more than 20% of the exterior building walls;
            3.   A recognizable base treatment of the wall consisting of
thicker walls, ledges or sills using integrally textured and colored material
such as stone, masonry or decorative concrete; or
            4.   Some other architectural feature that breaks up the exterior
horizontal and. vertical mass of the wall in a manner equivalent to division
(E)(3)(a)1., (E)(3)(a)2. or (E)(3)(a)3. above.
         (b)   Group 2: roof articulation.
            1.   Changes in roof lines, including the use of stepped cornice
parapets, a combination of flat and sloped roofs or pitched roofs with at least
two roof line elevation changes; or
            2.   Some other architectural feature or treatment which breaks up
the exterior horizontal and vertical mass of the roof in a manner equivalent to
division (E)(3)(b)1. above.
         (c)   Group 3: building openings, walkways and entrances.
            1.   Canopies or awnings accenting or blending with the
architectural design over at least 30% of the openings of the building;
            2.   Covered walkways, porticos and/or arcades accenting, blending
or incorporated into the structural design and compatible with the
architectural design, covering at least 30% of the horizontal length of the
front facade;
            3.   Raised cornice parapets over entries appropriate to the design
of the principal building; or
            4.   Some other architectural feature or treatment which adds
definition to the building openings, walkways or entrances in a manner
equivalent to division (E)(3)(c)1., (E)(3)(c)2. or (E)(3)(c)3. above.
         (d)   Group 4: building materials. The area of windows and doors,
including overhead doors, shall be excluded from the wall area calculation for
the following standards:
            1.   At least two kinds of materials distinctively different in
texture or masonry pattern, at least one of which is decorative block, clay
brick or stone, with each of the required materials covering at least 50% of
the exterior wall of the building;
            2.   Clay brick or stone (including synthetic stone) covering at
least 75% of the exterior walls of the building;
            3.   Remaining exterior building materials include, but are not
limited to, materials such as concrete masonry units (block), glass block,
fiber cement siding, glass, culture stone, calcium silicate products,
decorative precast panels and tilt-up panel construction;
            4.   Exterior Insulation Finishing Systems (EIFS)/Dryvit (synthetic
stucco) is permitted as a building material for architectural detailing only or
as an accent material only and cannot exceed 15% (less window and door area) of
the aggregate exterior wall; or
            5.   Metal siding may be used as an exterior finish material as
long as the amount used does not exceed 25% of the area of any single wall,
exclusive of the roof, and provided it matches or compliments the building
color and/or material scheme. Further, such metal siding shall be a “standing
seam” type or equivalent quality, not a “corrugated” type. Architectural
metals, such as bronze, brass, copper and wrought iron, may be used and may
exceed the 25% area limit.
         (e)   Group 5: other architectural definition.
            1.   Overhanging eaves extending at least 24 inches past the
supporting walls or with flat roofs, cornice parapets or capstone finish;
            2.   Ornamental lighting fixtures (excluding neon) for all exterior
building lighting; or
            3.   A feature that adds architectural definition to the building,
in a manner equivalent to (E)(3)(e)1. or (E)(3)(e)2. above.
      (4)   Articulation of walls; standards. Facades and any wall of the
building facing any road or public or private service drive, greater than 100
feet in length, measured horizontally, shall incorporate wall plane projections
or recesses having a depth of at least 4% of the length of the facade and
extending at least 20% of the length of the facade. No uninterrupted length of
any facade shall exceed 100 horizontal feet.
      (5)   Delivery/loading doors and docks. No delivery, loading, dock or
trash removal door shall be located on the main street facing facade of the
building. Any such door or facility located on the side or rear wall of the
building shall be screened in accordance with §§
153.25 through
153.39 and this chapter, as amended. For sites that have road frontage on
multiple sides, these facilities shall be located in the least obtrusive
manner, preferably on a non-road facing side of the building or the road
frontage that has the least public visibility.
      (6)   Rooftop mechanical units and other related equipment. Rooftop
mechanical and other related equipment shall be substantially screened from
view from public rights-of-way and other public places. Screening materials
shall be of the same or comparable materials used on the building. Roof-mounted
equipment screening shall be constructed as an encompassing monolithic unit;
rather than several individual screens (i.e., multiple equipment screens or
“hats,” surrounding individual elements shall not be permitted). The height of
the screening element shall equal or exceed the height of the structure’s
tallest piece of installed equipment.
      (7)   Cart storage and vending machines. Overnight cart storage areas,
vending machines and video and book return containers shall be placed in an
accessory structure designed to complement the principal building, or screened
with walls and landscaping.
      (8)   Multiple building developments. Development with multiple buildings
shall include predominant character in each building so the buildings within
the development appear to be part of a cohesive, planned area, yet are not
monotonous in design. Predominant characteristics may include the use of the
same or similar architectural style, materials and color.
      (9)   Building entrances. Primary public entrances shall be clearly
defined by recesses and projected or framed by elements such as awnings,
arcades, porticos or other architectural features.
      (10)   Building colors. Colors may be used to blend buildings into an
area and to unify elements of a development. Color should be drawn from the
surrounding area and, if in a new development area, shall be selected to
establish an attractive image and set a standard of quality for future
developments and buildings within the area. Monotonous or monochromatic color
palettes are prohibited. Accent colors used to call attention to a particular
feature of portion of a building, or to form a particular pattern, shall be
compatible with the predominant building base colors and may be incorporated
using such elements as shutters, window mullions, building trim and awnings.
(Accent colors shall cover no more than 5% of a building facade.)
      (11)   Franchise architecture. Prototypical or franchise architectural
designs must be modified to meet these architectural standards. Changes to
prototypical franchise styles to meet these standards may include, but not be
limited to, modifications to roofs, windows, doors, building mass, materials,
material colors, placement of architectural features and details and the like.
Care should be taken to ensure that such modifications comply with division (E)
(2) above. Franchise architectural styles found to meet these standards will
not require any modification.
      (12)   Illumination. Illumination highlighting the entire facade of a
building, or significant portion of the building, or back-lighted translucent
awnings intended to function as signage, shall not be permitted as part of the
building design. This standard is not intended to preclude the use of lighting
(including neon lighting) to accent limited portions of the building facade.
   (F)   Industrial architectural standards/PUD.
      (1)   Purpose and intent. These standards are intended to apply to
industrial buildings on sites adjacent to major roads (as defined in division
(F)(2) below) because of the visibility of such development and its impact on
the image and character of the community. Industrial development that is not
adjacent to a collector or local roads is not subject to these standards.
      (2)   Application. Standards within this division (F) apply to industrial
buildings located in the M Manufacturing District and areas within a planned
development that are located on sites adjacent to a major or minor arterial
road, as defined by the City Engineer or a state or federal highway.
         (a)   Sites adjacent to public or private service roads, where there
is no developed or developable private land between the service road and the
arterial road, shall be considered adjacent to such arterial roads or highways
and shall be subject to these standards. This shall include sites on service
roads separated from the arterial or highway road by public or private commuter
facilities or any other public facilities within the rights-of-way.
         (b)   However, industrial designated areas developed pursuant to a
planned unit development or special use permit may be subject to deviations
from the standards prescribed in this section.
         (c)   Division (A) above shall also apply to the standards of this
division (F).
      (3)   Arterial/highway sites.
         (a)   For any building abutting a major or minor arterial road or
highway, metal shall not comprise more than 25% of the exterior building finish
material on walls (roof excluded) facing such a road. Where walls on sites with
frontage on such roads do not face such roads, but are visible from such roads,
such as side walls, these requirements shall extend to one-third of the depth
of the wall measured from the wall facing such road.
         (b)   Metal siding includes any forms of metal exterior finish
material, including corrugated or standing seam metal siding. The Building
Commissioner may permit such metals such as bronze, brass, copper and wrought
iron, in excess of the 25% limitation if a determination is made that such
materials are equal or superior to the primary building materials.
   (G)   Residential architectural standards.
      (1)   Intent and procedure. These standards are intended to apply to all
attached or detached residential buildings containing one or more dwelling
units. Design reviews shall be conducted by the Building Commissioner or the
designated plan reviewer for the city.
      (2)   Articulation of walls. All building elevations shall have
projections, recessed walls or a window per level.
      (3)   Roof. Roofs should not be the dominating element of the structure.
There shall be a minimum of two ridges within the roof design. Architectural
style shingles or materials of higher quality shall be used as a roofing
material. Roof overhangs (eaves) shall project a minimum six inches beyond the
face of the wall.
      (4)   Chimneys. All chimneys constructed on any residential dwelling unit
shall have exterior finishes consisting exclusively of clay brick or stone from
the grade level to the caps thereof.
   (H)   Residential design monotony.
      (1)   Similar design restricted. No dwellings of similar front elevation
or facade shall be constructed or located within 750 feet of the other in a
residential zoning district.
      (2)   Criteria established. The determination of whether a building is of
sufficient dissimilar design shall be made by incorporating a minimum of three
of the following criteria:
         (a)   Number of stories;
         (b)   Roof design;
         (c)   Size and location of garage;
         (d)   Location of porches;
         (e)   Exterior finish consisting of clay fired brick or stone covering
25% of the aggregate total area of the exterior walls, exclusive of doors,
windows and trim;
         (f)   Exterior building material color;
         (g)   Architectural style; and
         (h)   Special architectural details (i.e., dormers, cupolas).
(Prior Code, § 24.15) (Ord. 09-4-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.13 ELEVATOR/CONVEYANCE INSPECTIONS.
   Owners of all buildings having any elevators and/or conveyances shall be
required to provide access to the Building Commissioner or his or her designee
for purposes of inspecting said elevator and/or conveyance. The city shall give
notice of the inspection not less than 48 hours before the inspection. In the
event access is denied, the Building Commissioner is authorized to revoke the
certificate of use and occupancy for the building housing the elevator/
conveyance. In the event the inspection reveals any material malfunction or
deficiency in the operation of the elevator/conveyance, the owner shall
immediately correct or repair it and restore it to a safe operating condition
before it is placed in service.
(Prior Code, § 24.16)
§ 150.14 PERMIT AND REINSPECTION, ADDED, PARTIAL INSPECTION AND REPLACEMENT
FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The total permit fee shall be payable in full prior to the issuance
of the permit or service to be performed.
      (2)   The payment of the fee for the construction, alteration, removal or
demolition and for all work done in connection with or concurrently with the
work contemplated by the building permit shall not relieve the applicant or
holder of the permit from the payment of other fees that may be prescribed by
law or ordinance for water connections, sewer connections, erection of signs
and display structures and marquees or other appurtenant structures, both
within and outside the jurisdiction of the Building Department.
   (B)   Reinspection fees.
      (1)   Re-inspection fees shall be charged under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When the permit holder has scheduled an inspection with the city
and the work to be inspected has not been completed at the scheduled inspection
time;
         (b)   The permit holder has failed to collect items listed on previous
inspection reports;
         (c)   City inspectors are denied access to conduct the inspection;
         (d)   City inspectors are prevented from conducting the scheduled
inspection; and
         (e)   Permit card is not accessible to inspectors for signing.
      (2)   All re-inspection fees shall be paid prior to the final inspection
or issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy or issuance of a certificate
of completion. Re-inspection fees are found in §
150.17.
   (C)   Added/partial inspection fees. Added and partial inspections that are
requested by the permit holder that are not covered under the allotted number
of inspections within the original permit cost shall be charged a fee for each
requested plumbing, electrical and structural inspection. The cumulative amount
of all partial inspection fees for each permit shall be paid prior to a final
inspection or the issuance of a certificate of use and occupancy or certificate
of completion. Added and partial inspection fees are found in §
150.17.
(Prior Code, § 24.17) (Ord. 05-2-2, passed - -; Ord. 05-8-2, passed - -; Ord.
17-8-1, passed - -)
§ 150.15 PERMIT APPLICATION APPEALS.
   Any applicant that has submitted an application for a building permit that
has been denied may appeal the decision to the City Planning and Zoning
Commission. Such appeal shall be in writing to the Administrator and must
accompany a complete formal application for a hearing before the Planning and
Zoning Commission with all applicable fees associated therewith. Hearings shall
be scheduled for the next regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting on the third Monday of each month, but shall be subject to agenda
limitations. In the event of a full agenda, the meeting shall be scheduled for
no later than the following meeting. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
reach a decision within 30 days from the date of the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 24.18)
§ 150.16 RIGHTS CONTINUED.
   Nothing in this chapter, or in the building code adopted in this chapter,
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquitted, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance is hereby repealed as cited in
this chapter; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 24.20)
§ 150.17 FEE SCHEDULE.
Fee Schedule
Fee Schedule
                                                   Basic fee                                                                    $1,750
                                                   Heating**                                                                    $80
                                                   Air conditioning**                                                           $80
                                                   Electric**                                                                   $175
                                                   Plumbing**                                                                   $200
                                                   Potable water inspection                                                     $50
                                                   Sanitary sewer inspection                                                    $50
                                                   Construction water for buildings 5,000 sq. ft. or less                       $50
                                                   Construction water for buildings 5,001 sq. ft. or greater                    $75
Residential (ER, R1, R2, R3)                                                                                                    $0.30 per
                                                   Plan review**                                                                square
                                                                                                                                foot
                                                                                                                                $50 -
                                                                                                                                Detached,
                                                                                                                                single-
                                                   Certificate of occupancy                                                     family
                                                                                                                                $30 -
                                                                                                                                Attached,
                                                                                                                                single-
                                                                                                                                family
                                                   Water connection (3/4 - 1 inch tap)
                                                   Attached and detached per unit                                               $2,469.93
                                                                                                                                $2,872.12
                                                   Duplex                                                                       + $455.85
Water and sewer capital development fees for ER,                                                                                per unit
R1, R2, R3                                                                                                                      $3,008.90
Backflow preventers are required and must be       More than 2 attached units                                                   + $455.85
included in plans submitted for review.                                                                                         per unit
Water and sewer connection fees are subject to §                                                                               225% of
50.44                                              Water meter                                                                  the direct
                                                                                                                                charge to
                                                                                                                                the city
                                                   Sewer connection:
                                                   Single-family (attached and detached) per unit                               $2,734.35
                                                   If served by a lift station                                                  $607.84
                                                   Basic fee                                                                    $1,950
                                                   Heating**                                                                    $50
                                                   Air conditioning**                                                           $50
                                                   Electric**                                                                   $175
                                                   Plumbing**                                                                   $200
                                                   Potable water inspection                                                     $50
                                                   Sanitary sewer inspection                                                    $50
                                                   Construction water - building 5,000 sq. ft. or less                          $50
                                                   Construction water - building 5,001 sq. ft. or more                          $75
                                                                                                                                $0.30 per
                                                                                                                                square
                                                   Plan review**                                                                foot or
                                                                                                                                direct
Water and sewer capital development fees for R5                                                                                 third-
Water and sewer connection fees are subject to §                                                                               party fee
50.44                                              Certificate of occupancy                                                     $30 per
Backflow preventers are required and must be                                                                                    unit
included in plans submitted for review.            Water connection (3/4 - 1 inch):
                                                      Apartments up to 2 units                                               $2,872.12
                                                                                                                                $3,008.90
                                                      Apartments over 2 units                                                + $455.85
                                                                                                                                per unit
                                                                                                                                225% of
                                                      Water meter                                                            the direct
                                                                                                                                charge to
                                                                                                                                city
                                                   Sewer connection:
                                                      One bedroom apartment                                                  $1,908.92
                                                      2 or 3 bedroom apartment                                               $2,452.39
                                                                                                                                per unit
                                                      If served by a lift station                                            $604.84
                                                                                                                                per unit
                                                   These are based on a set number of inspections required per project.
                                                   Fence                                                                        $60
                                                   Deck/ramp**                                                                  $100
                                                   Shed**                                                                       $60
                                                   Electrical, fireplace, plumbing, HVAC**                                      $80
                                                   Garage:
Flat fee projects                                     Without electric**                                                     $175
                                                      With electric**                                                        $225
                                                   Signs:
                                                      Without electric**                                                     $100
                                                      With electric**                                                        $175
                                                      Demolition of structure**                                              $75
                                                   Miscellaneous: porches, roof, siding, windows, doors, hot water heaters,     $60
                                                   water softeners and the like**
                                                                                                                                $0.25 per
                                                                                                                                square
                                                   Permit fees shall vary in cost due to the addition of the following charges, foot
                                                   if they apply for:                                                           Minimum 25
                                                                                                                                for permit
Fees for projects based on square footage for all                                                                               fee
Residential Zoning Districts                                                                                                    $0.30 per
                                                   Plan review**                                                                square
                                                                                                                                foot
                                                   Electric**                                                                   $125
                                                   Plumbing**                                                                   $125
                                                   Heating or air conditioning**                                                $50 for
                                                                                                                                each
                                                   Complete driveway                                                            $75
                                                   Driveway extension/parking pad                                               $35
                                                   Parking lots:
Driveways and off street parking/lots              1 - 1,000 sq. ft.                                                            $125
                                                   1,001 - 7,500 sq. ft.                                                        $175
                                                   7,501 - 20,000 sq. ft.                                                       $225
                                                   20,001 sq. ft. or greater                                                    $275
                                                   All areas of disturbed ground must be restored and approved prior to release of
Street cut, sidewalk cut deposit                   deposit.
                                                   Sidewalk cut                                                                 $1,000
                                                   Street cut                                                                   $1,500
                                                                                                                                Fees shall
                                                                                                                                be
                                                                                                                                determined
PD Planned Development Zoning District             This district may be either residential or commercial                        based on
                                                                                                                                the zoning
                                                                                                                                of the
                                                                                                                                property.
                                                   Basic fee - structures up to 20,000 sq. ft.                                  $0.50 per
                                                                                                                                sq. ft.
                                                   Structures 20,001 to 50,000 sq. ft.                                          $9,000
                                                                                                                                $12,500 +
                                                                                                                                $0.35 per
                                                                                                                                sq. ft.
                                                   Structures over 50,001 sq. ft.                                               for every
                                                                                                                                sq. ft.
                                                                                                                                after
                                                                                                                                50,000
                                                   HVAC**                                                                       $250
                                                   Electric**                                                                   $500
New construction, alterations, additions,          Plumbing**                                                                   $300
remodeled structures B1, B2 and M Zoning Districts Potable water inspection                                                     $50
                                                   Sanitary sewer inspection                                                    $50
                                                   Construction water - buildings 5,000 sq. ft. or less                         $50
                                                   Construction water - buildings 5,001 sq. ft. or larger                       $75
                                                                                                                                $0.30 per
                                                                                                                                square
                                                   Plan review**                                                                foot or
                                                                                                                                direct
                                                                                                                                third-
                                                                                                                                party fee
                                                                                                                                $100 per
                                                   Certificate of occupancy                                                     building/
                                                                                                                                unit
                                                   Water connection:
                                                   Less than 1 inch                                                             $2,507.42
                                                   Less than 1-1/2 inches                                                       $3,305.24
                                                   Less than 2 inches                                                           $5,242.82
                                                   2 inches                                                                     $7,636.30
                                                                                                                                $1,291.70
                                                                                                                                plus a
                                                                                                                                unit
                                                                                                                                charge of
                                                   Water meter (larger than 2” and compound meters must be quoted as they are $2.36 per
                                                   special order)                                                               gallon for
                                                                                                                                all
                                                                                                                                gallons
                                                                                                                                over 350
Water and Sewer Fund                                                                                                            gallons
capital development fees                                                                                                        per day
commercial/industrial backflow preventers and      Sewer connection:
reduced pressure zone valves (RPZ) must be         Less than 1 inch                                                             $2,735.37
included in plans submitted.                       Less than 1-1/2 inches                                                       $3,685.17
                                                   Less than 2 inches                                                           $6,040.64
                                                   2-inch                                                                       $8,890.02
                                                                                                                                $1,291.70
                                                                                                                                plus a
                                                                                                                                unit
                                                                                                                                charge of
                                                                                                                                $3.63 per
                                                   Any connection larger than a 2-inch meter, the fee shall be based on:        gallon per
                                                                                                                                day for
                                                                                                                                all
                                                                                                                                gallons
                                                                                                                                over 350
                                                                                                                                gallons.
                                                   All sizes greater than 2 inches must be quoted for water and sewer connections
                                                   Any private fire prevention water line users will be charges a onetime hook-up fee
                                                   based on the diameter of the water supply line.
                                                   Formula: supply divided by 2, multiplied by 1,000
Private fire prevention water line users           2-inch                                                                       $1,000
                                                   4-inch                                                                       $2,000
                                                   6-inch                                                                       $3,000
                                                   8-inch                                                                       $4,000
                                                   Fees are based on the following
                                                   Not correcting failed items listed on inspection report.                     $90 per
Re-inspection fees                                 No one home at job or site.                                                  re-
                                                   Repeatedly failing the same items                                            inspection
                                                   Permit card not accessible to inspectors for signing.
                                                   For all partial inspections (prior to scheduling the final inspection for occupancy,
Added/partial inspections                          the number of partial inspections shall be totaled and the permit applicant shall remit
                                                   to the Building Department such amount.)
Commencing construction without first obtaining a                                                                               Permit
building permit                                    The cost of the permit shall be calculated per project                       cost +
                                                                                                                                200%
                                                                                                                                Permit
Permit expiration                                                                                                              cost per
Prior to the date of the expiration a one-time                                                                                  type of
extension (not to exceed the original permit                                                                                    project.
length, with the exception of new construction,    Single, multiple family                                                      12 months
which shall be extended for 3 months only) shall   Commercial/industrial                                                        12 months
be granted; After such time a new permit must be   Additions, remodeling, commercial build-outs                                 6 months
obtained to complete the project.                  Garages                                                                      6 months
                                                   All other projects                                                           6 months
Watershed development permit fee                   Pursuant to §
                                                   155.03.
Site development permit fees                       0-20 acres                                                                   $1,200
                                                   20+ acres                                                                    $2,000
Notes to Table:
**Additional fees - Per the city’s contract with a third party.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24, Exhibit A) (Ord. 05-8-2, passed - -; Ord. 06-5-3,
passed - -; Ord. 06-6-4, passed - -; Ord. 08-5-3, passed - -; Ord. 17-8-1,
passed - -)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any work in or about the structure after
having been served with a stop order, except such work as he or she is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than $150 or more than $500, plus the city’s costs of prosecution.
Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 24.13)
   (C)   (1)   Any construction that is started prior to the issuance of a
building permit shall result in a double permit fee. In addition, a stop work
order will be issued by the city and will not be removed until the required
building permit has been issued.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or the
building code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall excavate for, erect, construct, alter, repair or remodel a building
or structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the Building
Commissioner, for a permit or certificate issued under the provision the
building code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less that $150 nor more than $500, plus the city’s cost of prosecution. Each
day that a violation continues hall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 24.19)
   (D)   Violation of §
150.05 shall result in a fine of $50 per day for each day that the violation
continues as well as other remedies found in this penalty section.
(Prior Code, § 24.05)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and intent
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   General requirements
   
151.04   Removal of certain signs
   
151.05   Nonconforming signs
   
151.06   Prohibited signs
   
151.07   Permitted signs allowed without a permit
   
151.08   Calculation of sign area allowance
   
151.09   Temporary signs
   
151.10   Permitted signs
   
151.11   Overlay district
   
151.12   Structural maintenance and requirements
   
151.13   Administration and enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a framework for regulating a
system of street graphics, thereby promoting pleasant communication between
people and our environment.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to assist in achieving the following
objectives:
      (1)   To foster high quality commercial and industrial development and to
enhance the economic vitality of existing businesses/industries by promoting
the reasonable, orderly and effective display of street graphics;
      (2)   To encourage sound street graphics display practice and to mitigate
the objectionable effects of competition in respect to the size and placement
of street graphics;
      (3)   To protect pedestrian and motorists from any damage or injury that
might result from the improper construction, placement and use of street
graphics;
      (4)   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by
reducing the obstructions and distractions, which may cause traffic accidents;
      (5)   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of street graphics with nearby land uses;
      (6)   Ensuring signs are appropriate to the type of activity to which
they pertain; and
      (7)   Guide development to reinforce distinct districts.
(Prior Code, § 16.01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign structure that has ceased to be used and the owner no
longer intends to use for the display of sign copy, or as otherwise defined by
state law.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any projection that is not intended for occupancy
and that extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but that
does not include signs as defined herein (e.g., awning, canopy, cornice).
   AWNING. An architectural projection made of cloth, metal or other material
attached to a building when the same is so erected as to permit its being
raised or retracted to a position against the building when not in use.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning.
   BACKLIT AWNING. An awning with a translucent covering material and source of
illumination contained within its framework.
   BACKLIT SIGN. A sign with opaque painted, raised letters lit by an electric
lamp or lamps from behind the sign to create a silhouette effect.
   BANNER. A temporary sign of lightweight fabric or non-rigid material with or
without enclosing framework, a flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may
be displayed that is mounted to a pole or a building at one or more edges.
   BILLBOARD SIGN. Any general outdoor advertising sign, which is designed to
advertise or direct attention to a business or activity conducted or a product,
commodity, service, real property, entertainment or facilities offered or sold
elsewhere to where it is affixed, or which directs persons to a location
different from where the sign is installed.
   BLIGHT. A severely spoiled or ruined state, especially of an urban area.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without opening, each
portion of such building shall be deemed as a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING FRONT. The portion of a building where the primary entrance is
located. Where more than one primary entrance is provided, the BUILDING FRONT
shall be that portion of the building facing toward the street to which the
legal address has been assigned. Corner lots shall have only one BUILDING
FRONT. For the purpose of this definition, the terms BUILDING FRONT and
BUILDING FACADE shall be deemed synonymous.
   BUILDING ELEVATION. The entire side of a building, from the ground level to
the roofline, as viewed perpendicular to the walls on that side of the
building.
   BUILDING MARKER. A sign indicating the name of the building and date of
erection, or historic data or information, when cut or etched into any masonry
surface or when constructed of bronze or other materials approved by Chapter
150 and mounted on the building.
   CANOPY (ATTACHED). A multi-sided overhead structure or architectural
projection supported by attachments to a building on one or more sides and
either cantilevered from such building or also supported by columns at
additional points. The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be
illuminated by means of an internal or external source of light. See also
MARQUEE.
   CANOPY (FREE-STANDING). A multi-sided overhead structure supported by
columns, but not enclosed by walls. The surface(s) and/or soffits of an
attached canopy may be illuminated by means of an internal or external source
of light.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of an attached or
free-standing canopy.
   CHANGEABLE SIGN. A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual or remote input, including signs which are:
      (1)   Electrically activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or
content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off
switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a
display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as
characterized by lamps or other light-emitting devices; or it may be from an
external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
See also ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER; and
      (2)   Manually activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or content
can be changed manually.
   CHAPTER. 
Chapter 151 of this code.
   CODE OFFICIAL. Enforcement officer named as Building Commissioner, Building
Inspector and/or Zoning Administrator.
   COLUMN. An upright support shaped like a long cylinder.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign identifying an architect, engineer,
contractor, subcontractor and/or supplier participating in construction on the
property on which the sign is located.
   COPY. Letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements
comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding numerals identifying the
street address only
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of
providing direction, instructions and/or facility orientation for pedestrian
and vehicular traffic.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, back to back.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN. A sign or sign structure in which directional electrical
wiring, connections or fixtures are used.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. An electrically activated changeable sign
whose message changes automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means
or whose variable message capability can be electronically programmed. This
shall not include areas of signs which indicate time and temperature.
   EXTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed outside a building.
   EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by a source of light which
is cast upon the surface of the sign to illuminate by reflection of that light.
   FACADE. The front or main face of a building; the side of a building, the
exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
   FACE OF SIGN. The surface of the sign, upon, against or through which the
message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.
   FLAG. A piece of fabric, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns
or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, religious or political
subdivision.
   FLASHING SIGN. A sign in which the illumination intermittently flashes off
and on in whole or in part used primarily to attract attention.
   FOOT-CANDLE. A unit of measure for luminance. A unit of luminance on a
surface that is everywhere one foot from a uniform point source of light of one
candle and equal to one lumen per square foot.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to
the ground and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one or
more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground.
   FRONTAGE (BUILDING). The length of an exterior building wall or structure of
a single premises oriented to the public way or other properties that it faces
(the length of the property line of any one lot along a public right-of-way
which it borders).
   FRONTAGE (PROPERTY). The length of the property line(s) of any single
premises along either a public way or other properties on which it borders (the
length of an outside wall that is adjacent to a street).
   FRONTAGE (TENANT). In a multiple unit building, that portion of the building
frontage that is the length of a unit for occupancy by an individual tenant or
owner. The TENANT FRONTAGE is measured from the centerline of the tenant
separation wall to the centerline of the tenant separation wall; in the event
the wall is an outside wall, it is measured from the outside of the outside
wall to the center of the tenant separation partition.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A temporary or permanent sign erected and maintained by the
city, county, state, federal government or political subdivision for traffic
direction or other municipal signs; legal notices; railroad crossing signs;
danger or other temporary emergency or non-advertising signs; or for
designation to any school, hospital, historic site, public service, property or
facility.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign supported by two or more uprights or braces in or upon
the ground surface.
   HEIGHT (OF A SIGN). The vertical distance measured from the highest point of
the sign, including decorative embellishments to the natural surface grade
beneath the sign, excluding berms, planter boxes and the like.
   HISTORIC SIGN. Any sign that is historic in nature or historically
established for use in relationship to a structure that is exactly or
reasonably preserved or restored to the condition of its original historic
period.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. A sign that does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign characterized by the use of artificial light,
either projecting through its surface(s) or reflecting off its surface(s).
      (1)   EXPOSED BULBS AND NEON. A sign that is lighted by a direct external
artificial light source that is integral to the sign, such as neon tubes or
light bulbs mounted on the face of the sign.
      (2)   EXTERNAL. A sign which is lighted by an artificial light source
which is not incorporated within the sign, such as flood lights or spot lights.
      (3)   INTERNAL. A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
within the sign for the purpose of lighting the sign.
   INCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL. Any material which will not ignite at or below a
temperature of 1,200°F and will not continue to burn or glow at that
temperature.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign which identifies a public or private
organizational, educational or public health or safety institution.
   INTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed within a building which is readily visible
from the exterior.
   LOT. The word lot when used alone shall mean a zoning lot.
   MAINTAIN or REPAIR. The replacement of existing work with equivalent
materials for the purpose of its maintenance, including, but not limited to,
cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective parts of a sign; but not
including any addition, change or modification in construction from the
original permit approval.
   MANSARD SIGN. A wall sign erected on a sloped roof or roof-like facade
architecturally comparable to a building wall.
   MARQUEE. Any hood of permanent construction projecting from the wall of a
building but not supported by the ground or sidewalk serving the purpose of
providing shelter and protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to, hung from or supported by a marquee.
   MHPC. The City Historic Preservation Committee.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A ground-mounted sign, completely or principally self
supported by a monument base that is wide, low to the ground and incorporates
architectural detailing/merit to the overall.
   MOVING SIGN. Any sign which rotates or moves or gives the visual impression
of rotation or movement.
   MULTIPLE FACED SIGN. A sign containing three or more faces.
   MULTIPLE-TENANT BUILDING. A building developed under one ownership,
containing two or more individual businesses.
   NAMEPLATES. A non-electric on-premises identification sign giving only the
name, address and/or occupation of an occupant or group of occupants.
   NEON SIGN. A sign made of glass tubing, which is electrified to cause
fluorescent agents to glow in various colors.
   NON-ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign having no illumination.
   OCCUPANCY. The portion of a building or premises owned, leased, rented or
otherwise occupied for a given use.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a use, business,
commodity, service or activity not conducted, sold or offered upon the premises
where the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor
environment for the purpose of the display of messages appurtenant to the use
of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is
displayed.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on official records.
   PAINTED WALL SIGN. A sign which is directly applied with paint or similar
substance on any portion of an exterior building wall, fascia, parapet,
chimney, on a fence or fence type wall, retaining wall, bench, fence post,
refuse enclosure, utility box, storage shed, bus shelter, satellite dish,
antenna or other accessory structure, except wall signs regulated herein.
   PARAPET. The extension of a false front or wall above a roof line.
   PENNANT. A temporary sign of lightweight plastic, fabric or other material,
whether or not containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire or
string.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign or sign structure which is directly affixed to the
ground surface or any part of a building or structure.
   POLE SIGN. A sign supported by one upright or brace in or upon the ground
surface.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement,
cause or candidate for office and also known as a campaign or election sign. A
legally permitted outdoor advertising sign shall not be considered to be a
POLITICAL SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a
building or building surface. Usually of a temporary nature, designed to be
moved easily and not permanently affixed, including, but not limited to: signs
to be transported by means of wheels; menu and sandwich boards signs, umbrellas
used for advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles or trailers
located for the primary purpose of displaying said signs, unless the vehicles
are used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
   POST SIGN. A sign supported by one upright or brace in or upon the ground
surface.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign supported by a building or other structure which
projects over any street, sidewalk, alley or public way or public easement,
structure or supporting wall. A sign that is affixed perpendicular to a
building in such a manner that its leading edge extends more than 12 inches
beyond the line of such building or beyond the lot line.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land either owned by or prescribed to the municipality
that is used for public purposes, such as streets, sidewalks, utilities or
green space. A RIGHT-OF-WAY includes all land and improvements located within
the property lines of said right-of-way.
   PUBLIC SIGN. Any informational sign which is owned or maintained by a local,
regional, state or federal government.
   PYLON SIGN. A tall vertical structure on or forming part of a sign. PYLONS
are not poles, posts or cylindrical in shape.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign erected for purpose of advertising the
sale, rental or lease of the premises or property upon which it is located.
   REVOLVING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees about an axis.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or building parapet, whichever is higher,
excluding any cupolas, pylons, chimneys or minor projections.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, constructed or maintained in whole or in part
upon or over the roof of a building or structure.
   SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
   SIGN. Any device visible from a public place that displays either commercial
or noncommercial messages by means of graphic presentations of alphabetic or
pictorial symbols or representations.
   SIGN AREA. The area of the smallest geometric figure, or the sum of the
combination of regular geometric figures, which comprise the sign face.
   SIGN COPY. The letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic
elements comprising the content or message of a sign, exclusive of numerals
identifying a street address only.
   SIGN FACE. The surface upon, against or through which the sign copy is
displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports, architectural
features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or decorative trim, or
any areas that are separated from the background surface upon which the sign
copy is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or border.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure supporting a sign.
   SUBDIVISION SIGN. A sign identifying a recognized subdivision, complex or
residential development.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to display either commercial or
noncommercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or
any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to
a building or sign structure that is embedded into the ground, are considered
TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   VEHICLE SIGN. Any advertising or business sign attached to a motor vehicle
which is parked or placed in position for the purpose of displaying the same to
the public.
   WALL SIGN. A sign mounted, attached to or painted on the exterior wall of a
building or structure in a plane parallel to that of the supporting wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign visible from the exterior of a building or structure
which is painted on a window; depicted upon a card, paper or other material; or
placed on, taped on or hung immediately behind the window; or displayed from a
window for the specific purpose of attracting attention of the passerby to a
sale or to promotional items or other products or services.
(Prior Code, § 16.02)
§ 151.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter,
construct, enlarge or relocate within the city any sign or other advertising
structure, as defined in this chapter, without first obtaining a permit from
the Building Department and paying the permit fee pursuant to §
150.17.
   (B)   Permit application. Applications for the erection, alteration or
relocation of a sign shall be made to the Building Department upon a form
provided by the Building Department and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Type of sign or sign structure as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   A site elevation plan showing the proposed location of the sign
along with the locations and square footage area of all existing signs on the
lot or building(s);
      (4)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (5)   Position of the sign or advertising structure in relation to nearby
buildings, structures or other signs;
      (6)   Two-color elevation drawings, shown to scale, of the plans and/or
specifications, materials, design, dimensions, structural support, methods of
construction and attachment to the building, other structures or in the ground;
      (7)   If required by the Building Department, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations showing the structure is designed for the dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by this and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter, city codes and ordinances;
      (8)   Name of person erecting the sign or other advertising structure, as
defined herein;
      (9)   Name and address and written consent of the owners of the building,
structure or land to which or on which the sign or other advertising structure
is to be erected;
      (10)   Electrical specifications pertaining to the sign and wiring
diagrams from the building, structure of which will illuminate or power the
sign; and
      (11)   Any other provisions the Building Department shall require showing
full compliance with this chapter and all other applicable codes and ordinances
in effect.
   (C)   Landscaping. All signs affixed to the ground shall be landscaped m
accordance with this chapter and §
153.37.
   (D)   Maintenance. All signs and advertising devices shall be reasonably
maintained in a clean, presentable and safe condition. All signs shall be
inspected annually to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Window signs. Signs displayed in windows, whether temporary or
permanent, shall cover no more than 30% of the square footage of the window
pane surface.
   (F)   Window obstructions. In no case shall windows be covered with plastic
sheeting, paper or any other material that would obstruct the view through the
window and cause blight to the building. In the case of construction and
remodeling, the applicant may request written approval by the Code Official
prior to installing such window coverings. Pull down window shading and tinting
are not subject to this division (F).
   (G)   Clearance. Signs and their supporting structures shall maintain
clearance and non-interference with all surface and underground facilities and
conduits for water, sewer, gas, electricity or communication equipment of
lines. Furthermore, sign placement shall not interfere with natural or
artificial drainage of surface or underground water.
   (H)   Easements. New signs shall not be placed on or over any easement
unless the easement is designated for the placement of signs.
   (I)   Sign content. The advertisement contained on any sign, except for
temporary signs of a civic, political or religious nature, shall pertain only
to the business, industry or pursuit conducted on or within the premises on
which said sign is located.
   (J)   Glass. Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety glass. In
the case the glass area exceeds three square feet, wire glass shall be used.
   (L)   Illumination. Illumination of any sign shall not exceed 75 foot-
candles and shall comply with the city’s electrical code.
   (M)   Neon signs. Interior neon signs shall be restricted to one per window
pane. Not more than 30% of window shall be covered. The outer dimensions of the
sign will be used to calculate the area of the neon sign.
   (N)   Supports. New sign supports, such as posts, poles, pylons, uprights,
braces, standard and the like, designed to raise the surface of the sign face
above the ground, shall not be visible. They shall be enclosed in a material(s)
which incorporates an architectural feature of the building and is similar in
color to the building.
   (O)   Obstructions. No sign or other street graphics shall be erected or
maintained in such a manner that it interferes with, obstructs the view of or
is likely to be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Accordingly, no street graphic shall contain the words “stop,” “go,” “caution,”
“danger,” “warning” or other similar words.
   (P)   Lumber. Pressure treated lumber shall not be utilized as a finish
product for any type of permitted sign.
(Prior Code, § 16.03) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign which is located on any property or a building or portion
thereof within the city which becomes vacant and unoccupied shall be removed
within 30 days by the owner, agent or persons having the beneficial use of the
property, building or structure upon which such sign may be found.
   (B)   Any sign and its associated structure not used for a period of three
months, or if the business so advertised is closed or otherwise abandoned for a
period of three months, shall be removed and may not be erected or re-
established unless in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended because
of a change in ownership or management may be granted a 30-day extension by the
Code Official after a written application has been submitted and reviewed.
   (D)   If the Code Official finds that any sign or other advertising
structure is abandoned, unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or
has been erected, or is being maintained in violation of this chapter, he or
she shall send written notice via certified mail to the permittee or owner
thereof seeking compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter. If
the permittee or owner fails to repair, maintain, alter or remove the sign
structure, so as to comply with the requirements herein set forth, within a
specified one day or no more than 20 days after receipt of such notice, such
sign or advertising structure may be removed by the Code Official at the
expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located. The
Code Official may cause any sign or other advertising structure which is an
immediate peril to persons or property, to be removed summarily and without
notice. The cost of such removal shall be the responsibility of the owner of
such sign. Payment shall be due within 30 days or a lien shall be made against
the property.
(Prior Code, § 16.04) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs existing on the effective date of this chapter (August 25, 2006)
and not conforming to its provisions but which were constructed in compliance
with previous city ordinances shall be regarded as nonconforming signs.
   (B)   A nonconforming sign shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign;
      (2)   Structurally altered as to prolong the life of the sign;
      (3)   Expanded;
      (4)   Re-established after its discontinuance for a period of 30 days;
      (5)   Removed and replaced, or moved in whole or in part to another
location, unless the sign and the use thereof, are in conformance with this
chapter;
      (6)   Re-faced or had the copy changed;
      (7)   Re-established after damage or destruction by means, including an
act of God, exceeding 50% of the estimated value of the sign. For the purpose
of establishing a value, all signs will be deemed to have a cost value of
$1,000 unless a bill of sale, tax return or a written appraisal by a sign
manufacture can prove the value; or
      (8)   A continued use with a change of business ownership or business
lessee for more than 30 days.
   (C)   No such repair, replacement or alteration shall be made to a
nonconforming sign unless such repair, replacement or alteration will create a
sign that conforms to the provisions of this chapter. Minor maintenance such as
bulb replacement and painting is allowed.
(Prior Code, § 16.05) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are strictly prohibited everywhere within the city
unless the sign was previously permitted by the issuance of a city permit. If
the sign was permitted under a previous permit and not currently in compliance
with this chapter, it must comply with the provisions set forth in §
151.05 and, if applicable, the provisions of §
151.11.
   (A)   Mobile, movable and portable signs not affixed to the ground (e.g.,
flashing arrow signs);
   (B)   Pennants, flags (other than those described in §
151.07), streamers, ribbons, strings of lights (except as defined herein),
spinners and other similar signs used as attention getters;
   (C)   Signs attached to trees, fences or public utility poles, other than
warning signs used by public utilities and entities;
   (D)   Signs placed in any public right-of-way, other than warning signs used
by public utilities and entities;
   (E)   Defunct signs, including the support structure(s) that advertise or
identify an activity, business, product or service no longer conducted on the
premises where such sign is located;
   (F)   Roof-mounted signs;
   (G)   Billboards;
   (H)   Pole signs;
   (I)   Off-premises business signs with the exception of recreational
sporting areas;
   (J)   Off-premises real estate signs;
   (K)   Projecting signs (except as permitted herein);
   (L)   Abandoned signs;
   (M)   Animated signs;
   (N)   Signs placed or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers which are parked
and visible from the public right-of-way where the apparent purpose is to
advertise a product or direct people to a business activity located on the same
nearby property. However, this is not in any way intended to prohibit signs
placed on, or affixed to, vehicles and trailers, such as permanent lettering on
motor vehicles where the sign is incidental to the primary use of the vehicle
or trailer;
   (O)   Signs which contain characters, cartoons, statements, works or
pictures of an obscene, indecent, prurient or immoral character;
   (P)   Illuminated signs in residential zoning districts (excluding the R-
3 Single-Family Zoning District);
   (Q)   Moving or rotating signs;
   (R)   Folding and collapsible sign (sandwich boards); and
   (S)   Portable signs.
(Prior Code, § 16.06) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 PERMITTED SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following signs may be erected within the city without obtaining a
building permit, provided they comply with the provisions set forth herein. The
area of said signs shall not be debited against the displaying establishments
sign area allowance:
   (A)   Construction signs identifying the architect, engineers, developers,
realtor, contractors and other individuals or firms involved with the
construction, and/or announcing the character or purpose of the building, but
not advertising any product or continued leasing. Such signs shall not exceed
32 square feet in area, shall be confined to the site of the construction and
shall be removed once the first occupancy certificate is issued;
   (B)   Directional and informational signs erected for the convenience of the
public and signs identifying entrances, exits, parking areas, no-parking areas,
restrooms, public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities. Such
signs are limited to two and shall not exceed three square feet in area;
   (C)   Special event signs when approved by the City Council. Special event
signs shall be subject to the provisions for temporary signs;
   (D)   Garage sale signs advertising a garage or yard sale on private
residential property. Such signs shall not exceed four square feet in area,
shall be confined to the premises on which the sale is conducted and shall not
be posted more than three days;
   (E)   Governmental public signs, such as traffic control signs, railroad
crossing signs, legal notices, public safety signs and signs indicating the
location of underground cables and the like;
   (F)   Holiday decorations such as Christmas lights and ornaments, or special
events such as birthdays, provided such decorations are removed within a
reasonable time after the special event or holiday;
   (G)   House numbers and/or name or occupant signs located on the lot to
which the sign pertains. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in area
for a single-family dwelling nor six square feet for multiple-family dwellings;
   (H)   Institutional signs for public, charitable or religious institutions.
Such signs shall be located on the premises of the institution, shall not
obstruct the vision of motorists and shall not exceed 24 square feet in area;
   (I)   Integral signs carved into stone or inlaid so as to become part of the
building and memorial tributes;
   (J)   Signs communicating the history of the property such as historic
markers or plaques affixed to buildings. Such signs shall not exceed five
square feet;
   (K)   Interior signs located in the interior of any building or within an
enclosed lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, provided such
signs are not visible from the exterior of the building;
   (L)   Property regulation signs such as no trespassing, no hunting and no
fishing. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet;
   (M)   Public interest signs publicizing a charitable or nonprofit event of
general public interest. Such signs shall only be erected upon private
property. In any residential zoning district, such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in area; elsewhere, such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in
area. Public interest signs shall be permitted only for 14 days before and
seven days after such event;
   (N)   Real estate signs indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises
on which they are located. Such signs on residential property shall not exceed
four square feet in area. On other property, such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in area. Not more than one real estate sign per street front shall
be erected on any one zoning lot. Such signs shall be removed within 24 hours
after the sale, rental or lease;
   (O)   Flags, consisting of not more than one each of the United States flag,
state flag, municipal flag and/or corporate flag, provided that the flagpole
for any such flag shall not exceed 30 feet in height, including the height of
any such structure which it is mounted. The length of any such flag shall not
exceed one-third of the height of the flag pole (including the height of any
structure which it is mounted) to which it is attached; and
   (P)   Door labeling with applicable logos.
(Prior Code, § 16.07)
§ 151.08 CALCULATION OF SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Calculation of sign area. The calculation of sign area for every sign
shall be calculated as follows.
      (1)   If a sign is enclosed by a box or outline, the total area,
including the background and including that outline, shall be deemed the sign
area.
      (2)   If a sign consists of individual letters, parts or symbols, the
area of the one imaginary square or rectangle that would completely enclose all
letters, parts or symbols shall be deemed the sign area.
      (3)   In calculating the sign area, only one side of any double-faced
sign shall be counted.
   (B)   Sign area allowance. Within the limitations and restrictions of this
chapter and all other applicable city codes, the total area of all signs which
a particular establishment is permitted to display shall be computed according
to the following provisions.
      (1)   One and one-half square feet of sign per one foot of lineal street
frontage for the first 100 feet of such frontage, plus one square foot of sign
area per one foot of frontage in excess of 100 feet of frontage.
      (2)   No establishment shall display more than 300 square feet of signs.
      (3)   If an establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side
having frontage shall be considered separately for the purpose of determining
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. However, the sign area
allowances shall not be aggregated so as to allow any such establishment to
display on any one frontage a greater area of signs than this chapter would
otherwise permit. No establishment shall have more than 300 square feet of
signs.
      (4)   The side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
      (5)   For strip centers that have no “street frontage,” the calculation
of sign area shall be one and one-half square feet of sign area per one foot of
width the occupancy (unit) has. Corner occupancies (units) are allowed one sign
per side not to exceed the one and one-half square feet of signage per one
square foot of width the occupancy contains.
      (6)   Shopping center identification signs shall be calculated as
follows: one and one-half square feet of sign per one foot of lineal street
frontage for the first 100 feet of such frontage, plus one square foot of sign
area per one foot of frontage in excess of 100 feet of frontage and shall not
be allowed signage in excess of 300 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 16.08)
§ 151.09 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following temporary signs are permitted subject to the provisions set
forth herein.
   (A)   Banners. Banners or inflatable signs and advertising devices are
permitted in the Business, ORI Office, Research and Light Industrial and M
Manufacturing districts for not more than 20 days in length consecutively and
not more than five times a year. Banners or inflatable signs and advertising
devices are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Banners shall not be greater than 50 square feet in area for a
single or double sided banner.
      (2)   The maximum quantity of banners allowed per establishment shall be
two with a maximum 100 square foot of sign area combined.
      (3)   The owner of such establishment shall obtain written approval from
the Building Department prior to installing any banner(s) or inflatable sign(s)
and advertising device(s). All banners installed shall have the date of
installation marked in one bottom corner for the enforcement officer to view.
The marking shall be minimum one-inch numerals.
      (4)   Banners or inflatable signs and advertising devices shall be
located on the structure of such establishment doing such advertisement and or
located within the property of such establishment. No such signs advertising
shall be allowed to be installed on or in any state, federal or public right-
of-way or on or in any easement, public or private, unless such easement is for
the installation of signs.
      (5)   Charities, new business, grand opening and special events may be
allowed to portray attention getting signage, pennants and streamers for a
period not no exceed 30 days before and after the business grand opening,
charity event or special event. All installations are subject to approval by
the Code Official. To exceed 30 days, such organizations shall present their
case to the Zoning Administrator for approval.
   (B)   Political signs. Political signs are permitted provided they are
displayed no more than 90 days prior to the election relating to the sign, or
the first day of filing for the office, whichever is later, and must be removed
within five days after the election. Such signs shall be limited to four square
feet in any residential zoning district and not more than 32 square feet in all
other zoning districts. No fee shall be required for the posting of temporary
political signs. All political signs shall remain on private property.
   (C)   Subdivision/residential/commercial or industrial development site(s).
One temporary non-illuminated subdivision sign, not exceeding 32 square feet,
located not less than 15 feet from any side lot line, is permitted for a period
of one year. The applicable permit fee plus an approved permit from the
Building Department is required. The permit may be allowed to be renewed at no
cost providing construction is diligently pursued.
   (D)   Special event signs. All special event signs are subject to City
Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 16.09)
§ 151.10 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The provisions of this section allow signs on private property after
obtaining sign permits; provided, however, that said signs shall be subject to
the provisions of this section. The signs in this section are prohibited in any
residential zoning district or on any property used extensively for residential
purposes.
   (A)   Exterior illuminated signs. All exterior illuminated signs shall be
subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Only white light shall be permitted.
      (2)   Beacon lights, strobe lights colored lights and illumination by
flame are prohibited.
      (3)   The light which casts upon any illuminated sign shall be shaded,
shielded or directed so as to avoid the creation or continuation of any
nuisance or traffic hazard and avoid excessive glare or illumination to
adjacent property.
      (4)   No matter its height or width, in no case shall the lighting
intensity of any sign exceed the limit of 75 foot-candles measured with a
standard light meter perpendicular to the face of the sign at a distance equal
to the narrowest dimension of the sign.
      (5)   No sign shall be either directly or indirectly illuminated in such
a manner to adversely affect the use and enjoyment of nearby buildings.
   (B)   Wall signs. In addition to the sign area allowance, wall signs shall
be subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No wall sign shall cover wholly or partially any wall opening or
architectural feature, nor shall any wall sign project beyond the ends of the
wall or beyond the top of the building to which it is affixed.
      (2)   Wall signs must be affixed flat against the building wall. Any
projection will be limited to the necessary mounting frame and shall not extend
more than four inches.
      (3)   No wall sign shall be affixed to a wall at a height of less than
four feet above the sidewalk or ground. If there is an adjacent sidewalk, wall
signs mounted less than eight feet above the ground shall not be permitted
unless flush against the wall.
      (4)   A wall sign shall be safely and securely affixed to the building
wall to the satisfaction of the Building Department.
      (5)   Wall signs may be located either on the front of the building
abutting a street or on either side wall perpendicular to the street frontage.
Buildings that have more than one entrance from public ways are allowed to have
a wall sign affixed to the wall sharing the entrance.
      (6)   In no case shall a wall sign be allowed to be affixed to a portion
of a wall without street frontage that extends higher than its neighboring
building.
      (7)   No more than one wall sign shall be allowed per business or use per
building side.
      (8)   Multiple unit buildings are allowed a wall sign indicating tenants
and individual units. The maximum square footage of the outline of signage
containing the individual tenants shall not exceed 25 square feet.
   (C)   Free-standing signs. In addition to the sign area allowance, free-
standing signs are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Not more than one free-standing sign shall be displayed on any
street front of any lot.
      (2)   Free-standing signs shall not exceed seven feet in height the any
business, ORI Office, Research and Light Industrial or M Manufacturing Zoning
Districts. Height is measured from the adjacent “normal” grade to the top of
the sign.
      (3)   No free-standing sign shall be erected closer than 25 feet to any
side, corner side or rear lot line.
      (4)   Free-standing signs shall not portray signs in excess of 85 square
feet. In determining sign area, the base of such free-standing sign does not
count as square footage, providing there are no signs attached to it.
      (5)   No part of a free-standing sign shall intrude or project over any
public right-of-way. All structural supports shall be situated at least ten
feet from any public right-of- way.
      (6)   All free-standing signs shall be securely constructed and erected.
At the discretion of the Building Department, construction plans may be
required to be certified by a registered architect or engineer. Such plans will
ensure compliance with applicable wind, seismic and snow loads.
      (7)   Unless the sign is mounted on a concrete base at least three feet
in height, any free-standing sign within three feet of a driveway, parking area
or maneuvering area shall be completely surrounded by curbing that is not less
than three feet from the outermost perimeter of the sign.
      (8)   All free-standing signs shall be located a minimum of 80 feet
apart.
   (D)   Monument (ground) signs. In addition to the sign area allowance,
monument signs are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No part of any monument sign shall intrude into any public-right-of
way.
      (2)   No monument sign shall be closer than 25 feet to any side, corner
side or rear lot line.
      (3)   No monument sign shall exceed 85 square feet and, if applicable, is
subject to the dimensions listed in §
151.11. If a base is constructed to raise the monument sign, the maximum
surface area of the sign and base shall not exceed 100 square feet in area,
based on constraints listed in §
151.08.
      (4)   No monument sign shall exceed seven feet. Height is measured from
the adjacent “normal” grade to the top of the sign.
      (5)   All monument signs shall be located a minimum of 60 feet apart.
   (E)   Awnings and awning signs. Awning signs are subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   The total area of an awning sign shall not exceed 50% of the total
area of the awning.
      (2)   Awnings and awning signs shall be constructed so that the lowest
portion thereof is not less than eight feet above the sidewalk of parkway.
      (3)   Every awning shall be securely attached to and supported by the
building. Posts or columns beyond the building line shall not be permitted.
      (4)   No awning shall be permitted to extend beyond a point two feet
inside the curb line.
      (5)   Lettering incorporated as signage on an awning shall not exceed 24
inches in height.
      (6)   Awning signs shall only portray the copy of the business name of
the establishment doing business on such property.
      (7)   Awnings shall be limited to the street level story of every
multiple story building.
      (8)   Every awning and awning sign shall be maintained in a neat and
attractive condition by its owner. The awning materials and hardware shall be
kept painted and/or treated to prevent rust and/or deterioration.
   (F)   Canopies and canopy signs. In addition to the sign area allowance,
canopies and signs attached to canopies are subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   There shall be a limit of one canopy sign per canopy face and one
canopy per street frontage erected for the purpose of identifying the
establishment and provided that no wall signs are directed to the same street
frontage.
      (2)   Canopy signs may only be mounted to the face (vertical edges only)
of the canopy proper.
      (3)   The sign area for a canopy sign shall not extend beyond the canopy
face on which the sign is located. No sign or portion of a sign shall exceed
the borderline of any outer edge of said canopy. No sign shall be placed on the
roof of said canopy.
      (4)   The outline shape and silhouette of a copy sign shall be simple and
compatible with the building it is mounted on.
      (5)   Canopy signs shall be harmonious in scale and proportion with the
building they are mounted to and with the architectural elements of the
building.
      (6)   A canopy shall not extend beyond a point two feet inside the curb
line.
      (7)   All canopy supports shall be designed so as not to obstruct the
continuous flow of pedestrian traffic along any sidewalk and in conformance
with any other reasonable requirements established by the Code Official.
      (8)   No advertising shall be placed on any canopy except for the name of
the owner and business, industry or pursuit conducted within the premises.
      (9)   Canopy signs shall not be illuminated.
   (G)   Marquees. Marquee signs are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The roof of all marquees shall be guttered and connected by
downspouts to a drain so water will not drip or flow directly onto public
property.
      (2)   The roofs of all marquees shall be used for no other purpose than
to form and constitute a roof.
      (3)   No portion of a marquee shall be less than eight feet above the
level of the sidewalk or other public thoroughfare. However, if the marquee
extends beyond two-thirds of the distance between the building and the curb, it
must be 12 feet above the sidewalk.
      (4)   No marquee shall be permitted to extend beyond a point two feet
inside the curb line.
      (5)   Marquees shall be supported solely by the building to which they
are attached, and no columns or posts shall be permitted as supports.
      (6)   The roof of any marquee shall be designed and constructed to
support a live load of not less than 60 pounds per square foot.
      (7)   Marquees shall be designed to withstand wind pressure of not less
than 80 mph.
      (8)   There shall be a limit of one marquee sign (per marquee face) per
building, erected for the purpose of identifying the establishment, and
provided that no wall signs are directed to the same street frontage.
      (9)   Marquee signs shall be mounted on the face (vertical edges only) of
the marquee proper. Signs shall not be erected above the roof line of the
marquee.
      (10)   The sign area for marquee signs shall not extend beyond the
marquee face on which the sign is located. No sign or portion of a sign shall
exceed the borderline of any outer edge of said sign. No sign shall be placed
on or over the roof of said marquee.
      (11)   The surface area of a marquee shall not exceed 40% of the sign
area of a marquee attached to the building front.
      (12)   The outlined shape and silhouette of a marquee sign shall be
simple and compatible with the building it is mounted on. Shapes that disrupt
the architectural order and composition of a building facade are not
acceptable.
      (13)   Marquee signs shall be harmonious in scale and proportion with the
building they are mounted to and with the architectural elements of the
building. A marquee sign shall not visually overpower those elements nor
detract from the composition of a buildings facade.
      (14)   Marquee signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials.
      (15)   Marquees outside the designated area of overlay districts may only
be internally illuminated or back-lit.
   (H)   Murals. Murals are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   All murals to be painted on any building within the city are
required to appear before the Planning and Zoning Commission for a
recommendation to the City Council and final approval from the City Council.
      (2)   Information should be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, to be
placed on Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council agendas. The
following information shall be submitted for review:
         (a)   An eight-inch by ten-inch color photo of building face the mural
is to be painted upon; and
         (b)   An eight-inch by ten-inch color sketch or painting of the actual
mural to be painted on the building face.
(Prior Code, § 16.10) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   In addition to the applicable provisions set forth in this chapter, all
exterior fixed signs proposed within the following locations shall be subject
to the following provisions. Prior to granting a permit for the erection of a
sign to be located anywhere within the Overlay District and/or a Historic
District, as defined pursuant to the Historic Preservation Ordinance (Ord. 00-
11-3 and amended by Ord. 05-11-2), the applicant shall make application to the
Code Official, who will require the MHPC to review the application and submit
its recommendations.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the Overlay District incorporates all
buildings located within the following locations:
      (1)   All buildings within the city that have frontage on the streets
that are within two blocks north and south of the centerline of U.S. Route 20;
and
      (2)   All buildings within the city that have frontage on the streets
that are within two blocks east and west of the centerline of U.S. Route 23.
   (B)   All proposed signs within the designated area of the Overlay District
and a Historic District shall be subject to the following guidelines and
stipulations.
      (1)   All signs are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Sign materials shall be similar to those used historically.
Substitute materials with the same appearance may be approved.
      (3)   All signs shall be subordinate to the overall character of the area
and they should be subordinate to the individual building or buildings they are
related.
      (4)   Neon signs may have achieved historic significance on building
styles related to the modern era and may be allowed to continue.
      (5)   Ground or free-standing signs shall be set back from the property
line a minimum of ten feet.
      (6)   Fluorescent, neon or other bright garish colors shall not be
approved. Historic colors and earth tones are recommended.
      (7)   Monument and free-standing signs shall be low in scale and visually
relate to the building. The maximum size shall be 32 square feet. They must
also conform to the provisions set for in §
151.10.
      (8)   Lettering style shall be compatible with the time the building was
erected or to a period the building currently reflects or compatible with the
surrounding area, as determined by the MHPC.
      (9)   All three dimensional signs shall be of a style used at the time
the building was erected or compatible with the surrounding area, as determined
by the MHPC, and should pertain to the type of business conducted within.
      (10)   Signs affixed to buildings may only be externally illuminated by
fixtures compatible with the period in which the building was erected, or to a
period the building currently reflects or compatible with the surrounding area,
as determined by the MHPC.
      (11)   All signs shall be constructed or painted in a workmanlike manner,
and all lettering shall be of uniform size and style.
      (12)   Signs of a period other than when the building was erected may be
approved if they are of a special design merit, reflective of an era,
consistent with the building facade having undergone significant remodeling or
compatible with the surrounding area, as defined by the MHPC.
      (13)   Any original sign that was used at the time the building was
constructed or prior to the year 1900, or an authentic facsimile thereof, may
be replaced on that building subject to the structural and maintenance
guidelines of the city.
      (14)   (a)   Within the Overlay District area or a Historic District,
signs shall identify only the name of the business and the general type of
goods, products or service(s) offered. In addition to lettering, graphics may
include a trademark, symbol or other representation directly related to the use
but not advertising specific brands within the building.
         (b)   A brand name or symbol may be included, however, if the business
is a franchise and/or it is the major brand sold or service offered on the
premises.
      (15)   The Code Official may forward any application to the MHPC for
review to confirm compliance with the provisions of this section. All external
permanent signage may require MHPC approval.
      (16)   Canopies attached to building are not permitted.
   (C)   Illumination. Signs shall not be illuminated in any manner between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless tied to the business’ hours of
operation within the B-1 Central Business District and business districts with
transitional yards, as provided in the zoning regulations of this chapter and
Chapter 158.
(Prior Code, § 16.11)
§ 151.12 STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The structural condition and general maintenance obligations of the owners
of all signs within the city are subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Bracing. In addition to the main attachment of a sign, any extra
bracing, angle iron, guide wires, temporary supports or any other item that
assist the sign to be affixed to any structure are prohibited. All signs shall
be structurally affixed to buildings using best building construction practices
and shall comply with the city’s current building code.
   (B)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Every sign or other street graphic shall be maintained in a neat
and attractive condition by its owner. Sign skins shall not be allowed to fade
to a point the messages are unreadable. Sign supports shall be kept painted
and/or treated to prevent rust or deterioration.
      (2)   All electrical components of existing signs shall be kept in
compliance with the city’s current electrical code.
      (3)   The Code Official shall determine the time frame for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 16.12) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Code Official is authorized and directed to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter. The responsibility encompasses, but is not
limited to the following specific duties:
      (1)   Review and pass upon compliance applications for street graphics
and signs;
      (2)   Inspect existing and newly constructed signs and street graphics to
determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Where violations are
evident, to initiate the appropriate corrective action;
      (3)   Review and forward to the MHPC and/or the Planning and Zoning
Commission all applications for special signs or street graphic permits,
variances, appeals or request recommendations from each respective Commission
to approve such application;
      (4)   Maintain up-to-date records of applications and any official
actions taken to pursuant thereto;
      (5)   Periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the Planning and Zoning Commission, MHPC and City Council;
      (6)   To provide information to the general public on matters relating to
this chapter; and
      (7)   To perform such other duties as the City Council may from time to
time prescribe.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Code
Official or MHPC to the Planning and Zoning Commission. An application for
appeal shall be based on the claim that the true intent of the regulations of
this chapter have been incorrectly interpreted, that the provisions of this
chapter do not fully apply or that an equivalent form of construction is to be
used.
      (2)   The appeals procedures shall be those utilized by the city with
respect to appeals of the Building Code Official or pursuant to the city’s
Historic Preservation Ordinance, whichever is applicable.
(Prior Code, § 16.13)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined pursuant
to §
10.99 and shall be responsible for reasonable attorneys’ fees incurred by the
city in the prosecution of such violations. Each day a violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offence and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 16.13)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
152.01   Names of streets
   
152.02   Damage to streets
   
152.03   Encroachments on streets
   
152.04   Obstructing streets
   
152.05   Material in public ways
   
152.06   Advertising on streets
   
152.07   Debris in streets
   
152.08   Excavations in streets and rights-of-way
   
152.09   Protection of work in streets
   
152.10   Openings in streets
   
152.11   Street maintenance
   
152.12   Curbs and gutters
   
152.13   Sidewalks
   
152.14   Snow on sidewalks
   
152.15   Damage to public property
   
152.16   Moving structures
   
152.17   Burning leaves or rubbish
   
152.18   Driveways
   
152.19   Easements, rights-of-way, ditches/swales
   
152.20   Sump pump discharge
   
152.21   Numbering buildings
   
152.22   Gas pipes
   
152.23   Mailbox installation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 NAMES OF STREETS.
   (A)   All streets of the city shall be known and designated by the names
applied hereto, respectively, on the map of the city kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The street names designated on such map shall continue to be the names
of the streets unless and until changed by ordinance of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.01)
§ 152.02 DAMAGE TO STREETS.
   No person shall damage or deface any street, alley, sidewalk, public way,
park or other city or public property, or any post, wire, lamp, street sign,
traffic sign, tree, grass, vegetation, gutter, drain, manhole or any other
appurtenance thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6.02) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 ENCROACHMENTS ON STREETS.
   (A)   Permit.
      (1)   No person shall erect or maintain any structure or thing on, over
or under any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way except by permit
from the City Council. Application for such permit shall describe the nature of
the encroachment detail, as the City Council shall require. The Council, in its
discretion, may issue or deny the permit and may impose any conditions to such
permit as it deems appropriate.
      (2)   To the extent the provisions of this section may conflict with the
provisions of
Chapter 158, the more restrictive provisions shall prevail.
   (B)   Awnings. Awnings made of a pliable substance attached to a building
and extending not less than eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk may be
erected and maintained without a permit.
   (C)   Maintenance. Any encroachment on any street, sidewalk, alley or public
way shall be maintained so that it does not endanger or obstruct the public.
(Prior Code, § 6.03) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   Free passage. No person shall obstruct or endanger the free passage or
proper use of the public on any street, sidewalk, alley or public place, except
as may be permitted by this code.
   (B)   Exceptions. Goods, wares and merchandise may be placed on sidewalks
for such reasonable time as may be necessary while loading and unloading,
provided pedestrian traffic is not totally obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 6.04) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 MATERIAL IN PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall place any materials on or over any street, sidewalk or
public place without a permit from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 ADVERTISING ON STREETS.
   No person shall paint or post any signs or bills on any streets, poles or
other structures in any street or on the surface of any street or sidewalk
without permission from the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.06) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 DEBRIS IN STREETS.
   No person shall litter or deposit any foreign matter on any street, alley,
sidewalk, right-of-way, park or public place, except building materials and
merchandise as permitted under this code, or as may be permitted by the Chief
of Police.
(Prior Code, § 6.07) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Permit. In addition to any other governmental permit, no person shall
excavate in or tunnel under any street or sidewalk in the city without first
securing a permit and notifying JULIE at least 24 hours in advance of such work
from the Building Department and Coordinator of Public Works.
   (B)   Deposit. A deposit shall be made pursuant to §
150.11 for any excavation in streets or rights-of-way.
   (C)   Restoration. Restoration shall be pursuant to §
150.11, including right-of-way restoration to the original or acceptable
condition according to §
152.15.
   (D)   Standing bond. Any public utility or other person may deposit a bond
with the city to assure the proper repair of city streets whenever work is done
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.08) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 PROTECTION OF WORK IN STREETS.
   (A)   Any person constructing, repairing or making any excavation in or
tunneling under, or placing any material on or over any street, sidewalk,
right-of-way or other public place shall maintain suitable barricades and other
protective devices as necessary to prevent injury to any person(s) exposed to
the construction process. Suitable lights shall be maintained during the night
time to warn the public. No person, unless authorized by the city, shall
interfere with or disturb any such warning devices.
   (B)   A JULIE dig number shall be obtained and a permit shall be secured
from the Building Department and the Coordinator of Public Works at least 24
hours in advance of placing any barricades in any street.
(Prior Code, § 6.09)
§ 152.10 OPENINGS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Permit. No street, alley, tree bank, public ground or place shall be
disturbed or opened, nor shall any material or thing be placed or kept therein
without first making application to the Coordinator of Public Works for the
privilege of making said opening and to have a written permit issued by the
Coordinator of Public Works for said opening.
   (B)   Application. Persons desiring such openings shall make application to
the Coordinator of Public Works on a form furnished by the city. No permit will
be issued until the permittee:
      (1)   Completes an application for opening on a form furnished by the
city and states fully all purposes for which the opening is required;
      (2)   Contacts all individuals or corporations operating gas, electric,
telephone or other public utility in the area, as well as the city itself to
receive from them the information as to the existence and location of any
underground facilities, so that the proper precautions can be taken to avoid
serious damage to the underground structures. Before opening is started, the
applicant shall furnish the Coordinator of Public Works with written statements
from persons named above to the effect that they have been informed of the
proposed project;
      (3)   Files a work scheduled approved by the Coordinator of Public Works
indicating starting date and date of completion and number of hours each day
that work will be undertaken;
      (4)   (a)   Agrees to make an opening in such a manner as to not
unreasonably interfere with vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the demand and
necessity for parking spaces and the means of egress to or from properties
affected; and
         (b)   If an opening requires the closing of a street, permit approval
is required from the City Council, and the permittee shall provide for and pay
all costs of detouring traffic.
      (5)   Secures a State Department of Transportation permit if required;
      (6)   Secures appropriate city permits if opening is for the purpose of
making connection to the water or sanitary sewer system;
      (7)   Pays a permit fee, which shall be determined from time to time by
the City Council;
      (8)   Agrees to pay all costs of city engineering or inspection services
if deemed necessary by the Coordinator of Public Works. The permittee may be
required to place on deposit with the Clerk an estimated cost of engineering
and/or inspection services. The permittee, however, shall only pay the actual
costs of such services;
      (9)   File with the Clerk a good and sufficient bond payable to the city
with surety approved by the city, conditioned that such person shall faithfully
observe the ordinances of the city and shall make and repair such openings and
space, and shall save and keep harmless the city from all costs arising in any
manner or way from the granting of such permit. The amount of the bond shall be
determined by the Coordinator of Public Works but in no case shall it be less
than $1,000;
      (10)   Agrees to adequately protect all excavations with barricades,
lights or other means of protection required by the Coordinator of Public
Works. He or she shall also place on file the name, address and home telephone
number of the person responsible for the work;
      (11)   Agrees that materials used and methods of construction shall be in
conformance with specifications established by the City Engineer or Coordinator
of Public Works. All work shall be under the supervision of the Coordinator of
Public Works; and
      (12)   Agrees to secure and protect the city from any liability or damage
whatsoever for injury, including death, to any person or property and files
with the Clerk liability insurance certificates in an amount to be established
from time to time by the City Council, but in no case less than $1,000,000.
   (C)   Default. In any case where a permittee shall be in default or shall
fail to comply with the requirements of this section, or shall fail to complete
the work on the date agreed upon, the Coordinator of Public Works shall order
the work completed by the city and shall so notify the permittee and surety in
writing. The city shall recover the cost from the permittee or his or her
surety.
(Prior Code, § 6.10)
§ 152.11 STREET MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Duty imposed. It shall be the responsibility of every subdivider or
developer to keep and maintain the streets and ways in and around the
subdivision clean and free from all dirt, mud, construction material and other
debris during the period of construction.
   (B)   Streets. The duty imposed by division (A) above shall apply to all
streets within the subdivision, all streets designated as construction traffic
routes and all perimeter streets or streets adjacent to the subdivision.
   (C)   Required cleaning. Every subdivider or developer shall scrape each
street described in division (B) above every day during the period of
construction, and shall sweep or cause the streets to be swept once every week.
In addition to the foregoing, every subdivider shall be required to scrape,
sweep or remove debris from the streets as from time to time directed by the
Coordinator of Public Works, the Administrator or the City Engineer.
   (D)   Snow and ice removal. In the event one or more certificates of
occupancy have been issued for any structures located on an unaccepted street,
the subdivider or developer shall be responsible for snow and ice removal. If
required by the city, a subdivider or developer shall enter into a contract
with the city for snow and ice removal. The cost of such service shall be
approved from time to time by the City Council using the IDOT approved cost
schedule.
   (E)   Notice. Prior to the imposition of the penalties set forth in §
152.99(E)(3) and (E)(4), the city shall cause a written notice to be sent to
the subdivider or developer setting forth the specific violations(s) of this
code. The subdivider or developer shall have five days after the date of the
notice within which time to comply with the terms of this code. In the event
the subdivider or developer does not comply with the terms herein within said
five-day period, the city may proceed to impose the penalties provided for in §
152.99(E)(3) and (E)(4). No notice shall be required prior to the imposition of
the penalties set forth in §
152.99(E)(1) and (E)(2).
(Prior Code, § 6.11)
§ 152.12 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Uniform construction. All curbs and gutters hereinafter built in the
city shall be of uniform construction and built under the supervision of the
City Engineer and Coordinator of Streets and Maintenance. No curb or gutter
shall be constructed unless the same complies with the provisions herein
stated, and all property owners complying with the provision shall pay the
entire costs of constructing the curb and gutter adjacent to or abutting his or
her property.
   (B)   Construction required. Curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all
streets in the city at such times as the property owners wish, except when
constructed by the city under special assessment proceedings made in connection
with street improvements or when, in the discretion of the City Council, such
construction is deemed necessary.
   (C)   Location. The height and location of the curb shall be determined by
the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 6.12) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.13 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Specifications. All sidewalks that may hereafter be built within the
city shall be in accordance with the plans and specifications of the City
Engineer.
   (B)   Permit. No person shall build, repair or replace any sidewalk along
any public street and within the public right-of-way without a permit from the
Building Department.
   (C)   Grade. The grade at which all sidewalks shall be laid shall be fixed
and determined by the City Engineer, and no person shall lay or construct any
sidewalk within the city except at such grade.
   (D)   Notice. Whenever the City Council finds it necessary and proper to
construct or rebuild any sidewalks along or upon any street or public alley in
the city, it shall require the City Engineer or Coordinator of Public Works to
examine the matter and report back to the Administrator. When such report has
been made, the affected property owner(s) shall be notified in writing that a
walk shall be built. Said notice shall state, in detail, the specifications
governing the construction of the walk.
   (E)   Council action. If such owner or owners of the property, so notified
to build such walk, refuse to build the same for a space of 15 days after
receiving the notice, the City Council shall pass an ordinance providing for
the construction of such walk or walks, in accordance with the provisions of
the state compiled statutes relating thereto.
   (F)   Cost. The owner or owners of any lot, piece or parcel of ground in the
city, along and in front of which the City Council orders a sidewalk to be
built, either by special ordinance or otherwise, shall pay the entire cost of
the building of such sidewalk, and the city shall not be responsible for any
portion of the cost of any sidewalk within the city, except for such sidewalks
as are laid along or in front of property owned by the city.
   (G)   Compliance. When any walk is built, constructed or rebuilt in
accordance with this section it shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner
to see that the conditions and specifications pertaining to the construction of
the walks are complied with, and the city shall have the right to accept or
reject any sidewalks that do not comply with the specifications, as fixed by
the City Engineer for the construction of sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.14 SNOW ON SIDEWALKS.
   The person occupying the ground floor of any building, the owner/user of any
lot without a structure thereon, and the owner of any vacant building or other
premises shall remove the snow and ice accumulating on the abutting sidewalks
within 24 hours after any snowfall has ceased. If snow or ice cannot be
removed, the surface shall be sanded or otherwise treated to lessen the hazard
for pedestrians until the climate permits removal.
(Prior Code, § 6.14) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.15 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall damage or deface any street, alley, sidewalk, public way,
park or other public property, or any post, wire, lamp, street sign, traffic
sign, tree, grass, vegetation, gutter, drain, manhole or any other appurtenance
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 6.15) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 MOVING STRUCTURES.
   No person shall move any building or structure on any street without a
permit from the Building Department. The Building Department may impose such
conditions deemed appropriate to protect the city and the public. Upon granting
such permit, the applicant for such permit shall deposit $1,000 in cash with
the city as security for the protection of the streets and other city property
exposed during the moving process. The deposit shall be returned, less a $50
administration fee and any cost to repair public facilities damaged by the
moving process. At no time shall a deposit be returned without written approval
from the Coordinator of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 6.16) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.17 BURNING LEAVES OR RUBBISH.
   No person shall burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon any
street, sidewalk or alley.
(Prior Code, § 6.17) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Building driveways.
      (1)   Specifications.
         (a)   Driveway specifications. Driveways and driveway approaches
across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete having a minimum thickness of
six inches and a minimum compressive strength of 2,500 pounds per square inch
in 28 days. All new driveway approaches shall have a surface material of either
two-inch-thick bituminous concrete Class I, or six-inch concrete in accordance
with the preceding specification. Driveway construction shall have a gravel
base thickness of not less than six inches and surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic or bituminous concrete. Driveways must remain outside of
any easement and at least one foot from the property line. A proposed driveway
must be a continuation of an existing driveway. Driveways may not be located in
front yards. They may not be paved beyond the primary structure or detached
garage. Thirty-three feet is the maximum driveway width from the setback line
to the property line. Twenty-five feet is the maximum driveway width at a
right-of-way. The driveway width above the front yard setback line has no width
limitations, provided it meets all above conditions.
         (b)   RV and boat trailer specifications. RV and boat trailers must be
operable and plated/registered and must be on a paved surface. The limit is two
items per lot. They are allowed to park year-round.
         (c)   Parking pad specifications. There is a limit/maximum of one
parking pad per lot. A parking pad would only be allowed for non-motorized
vehicles. Items must be operable and registered/plated. A pad may be no larger
than 200 square feet. It must be a paved concrete, brick or asphalt surface and
must be located within the rear lot line and side yard setback.
      (2)   Cost.
         (a)   All new driveway approaches, including the culvert, subgrade
preparation and surface, shall be at the owner’s expense. For any replacement
or repair work the city shall, subject to prior approval from the City Council,
reimburse the property owner for permanent surface material meeting
specifications up to a maximum surface area of 120 square feet per platted lot.
Reimbursement will be made on the basis of actual surface measurements and will
be reimbursed at the lower of actual invoice cost or the prevailing retail
price per ton of bituminous concrete, Class I, F.O.B. point of origin or
concrete per yard, F.O.B. job site.
         (b)   All labor and materials, including driveway removal, subgrade
preparation and surface material installation, shall be at the expense of the
property owner.
      (3)   Culverts. A corrugated metal culvert shall be installed under the
driveway, at the owner’s expense, where curb, gutter and storm sewers are not
provided for the tract. The diameter and length of the culvert shall be
approved by the City Engineer or Public Works Director. However, a culvert
shall extend not less than one foot on each side of the driveway. Flares shall
be installed on each side of the culvert. The method of installation and
material shall be approved by the Public Works Director. Maintenance
responsibility of the culvert and pipe are that of the property owner.
      (4)   Modifications. The Public Works Director may, at his or her
discretion, grant exceptions or modifications to this section if good
engineering principles are followed to protect the integrity of the right-of-
way and does not change or restrict the normal flow of stormwater. Special
considerations for Estate Residential (ER) shall be made with Public Works
Director discretion.
(Prior Code, § 24.08)
   (B)   Public way and property driveways.
      (1)   Permit. No person shall construct a driveway entering any street
without a permit from the Building Department. Said driveway shall be
constructed according to the requirements of Chapter 158, however, all
driveways in areas not served by curb and gutter must be constructed of asphalt
or concrete, as defined in the city’s building code, from the lot line to the
edge of the paved roadway.
      (2)   Culverts.
         (a)   Culverts may be required in areas not served by curb, gutter and
storm sewers prior to the point of entry of the driveway to the public road, as
defined in the city’s building code. The length, width, depth and location of
the culvert shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer or Director
of Public Works.
         (b)   In the event driveways are to be altered where there have been
no previous culverts or previous culverts are inadequate, new culverts shall be
installed pursuant to §
150.11.
         (c)   If, in the judgment of the City Engineer, culverts are needed to
remove any obstructions in drainage ditches or swales, the city shall install a
culvert of the size and length determined by the City Engineer. The cost of the
culvert and repaving that portion of any driveway that may be affected shall be
borne by the owner of the property.
         (d)   The city shall bear the cost of installation and re-graveling of
that portion of any driveway that may be affected by the installation of any
culvert.
         (e)   Maintenance to ensure proper water flows of all culverts,
ditches and swales shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owner
or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 6.18)
(Ord. 22-9-2, passed 9-26-2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.19 EASEMENTS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, DITCHES/SWALES.
   The portion of each property in the city from the front property stakes to
the roadway has already been dedicated to the city to be used for utilities,
surface drainage and future roadway.
   (A)   Buildings, structures or any parts of appurtenances thereto shall not
be constructed or placed in any easement so as to restrict drainage channels.
   (B)   The placement of any fill material in the right-of-way between the
property line of the property owner and the public road shall require a permit
issued by the Building Department.
   (C)   No permit to alter, build or fill any part of the dedicated roadway
shall be issued by the Building Department until written approval is received
from the City Engineer or Director of Public Works that the proposed
alteration, building or fill will in no way effect surface water runoff
capacities or patterns of surrounding properties.
   (D)   The cost of the engineering review shall be borne by the person(s)
desiring the modification and shall be paid prior to the review being made.
   (E)   All ditches and swales shall have the appropriate vegetation in the
form of grass to eliminate erosion and sedimentation that could be caused by
water traversing the ditch or swale, unless some other form of erosion and
sedimentation control is recommended by the City Engineer for the project.
(Prior Code, § 6.19) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 SUMP PUMP DISCHARGE.
   No person shall construct, alter, maintain or in any way provide for the
discharge of a sump pump, either directly or indirectly, to any public street,
sidewalk or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6.20) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.21 NUMBERING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Numbering buildings. All buildings abutting streets of the city shall
be numbered in accordance with the city map prepared by the City Engineer,
which map shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Responsibility. It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of
every building in the city to have placed thereon or on the property, in a
place visible from the street showing the number of the building. The address
shall be in Arabic numerals or alphabet letters (script not permitted) at least
four inches high, contrasting with the background and having a minimum stroke
width of one-half inch.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 GAS PIPES.
   (A)   No person owning or maintaining any gas pipes or mains beneath the
surface of any street in the city shall permit any leak to occur in such pipes
or mains within a radius of 40 feet of any tree growing in any street or public
place in the city. In the event that a leak exists or occurs in any such pipe
or main, it shall be the duty of the person owning or using such defective pipe
or main to repair the same immediately and stop such leak in a manner so as to
prevent a recurrence of the same trouble, after receiving notice in writing
from the Coordinator of Public Works, calling the attention of such person to
the fact that such leak exists.
   (B)   If such person fails within five days after the receipt of such notice
to stop such leak in a manner so as to prevent a recurrence thereof, such
person shall be subject to the penalty provided for violation of this code.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.23 MAILBOX INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Mailboxes installed along city streets shall be in accordance with
U.S. Postal Service regulations. Except as specifically provided for herein,
mailbox posts shall not be reinforced or fortified in such a way as to prevent
or resist its destruction upon impact. The placement of such mailboxes shall
not interfere with street maintenance projects, such as snow plowing and street
cleaning. For purposes of this section, mailboxes of masonry construction shall
be considered reinforced or fortified.
   (B)   Exemption: Subject to prior written approval by the City Public Works
Director, countersigned by the property owner(s) with a release of liability
(“mailbox permit”), mailboxes may be constructed with reinforced or fortified
material (“exempt mailbox”) where the mailbox is located far enough off the
city paved portion of the right-of-way so as not to constitute a potential
hazard or interference with city snow plowing and street maintenance work. The
mailbox permit shall provide for the property owner’s release of liability in
favor of the city, its employees and officers for damage or destruction of the
exempt mailbox. Access to the exempt mailbox by the mail carrier shall be
provided at the expense of the property owner and shall include a paved surface
to eliminate ruts of mud and soil. Property owners of fortified mailboxes
existing as of April 2025 shall be considered in violation of this section
until the mailbox permit referenced herein is issued.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. 25-4-2, passed 4-14-2025) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any encroachment maintained in violation of §
152.03 is declared a nuisance and may be abated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.03)
   (C)   Any person violating §
152.07 shall be liable for the cost of removal of the foreign matter in
addition to the penalty provided for violation for this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.07)
   (E)   Any subdivider violating any provision of §
152.11 shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties, said
penalties being cumulative and in addition to any other penalties which may be
imposed:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a separate violation occurs or continues;
      (2)   The city may undertake the necessary cleaning as required herein
and then assess the costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees,
incurred by the city for such cleaning against the subdivider and may take
action against the performance or construction bond for payment thereof;
      (3)   “Stop work orders” for the subdivision may be issued by the city
until the subdivider complies with the requirements herein. No work shall be
done in the subdivision while the stop work order is in effect; and
      (4)   The city may withhold the issuance of certificates of occupancy for
all residences within the subdivision until the subdivider complies with
requirements herein.
(Prior Code, § 6.11)
CHAPTER 153: TREES AND LANDSCAPING
Section
Trees
   
153.01   Applicability; intent
   
153.02   Tree species
   
153.03   Location, distances
   
153.04   City authority to care for trees
   
153.05   Topping prohibited
   
153.06   Pruning
   
153.07   Removal of trees and stumps
   
153.08   Tampering
   
153.09   Protection of trees
   
153.10   Tree preservation during construction
   
153.11   Application for trees and stump removal permits
   
153.12   Emergencies
   
153.13   Interference with city tree work
Landscaping Code
   
153.25   Purpose
   
153.26   Definitions
   
153.27   Scope
   
153.28   Approval process
   
153.29   Plan preparation
   
153.30   Submittal requirements
   
153.31   Landscape standards
   
153.32   Plant materials
   
153.33   Maintenance and replacement
   
153.34   Parking lot requirements
   
153.35   Landscaping required
   
153.36   Transitional yards
   
153.37   Free-standing, ground and monument signs
   
153.38   Tree preservation
   
153.39   Prohibited vegetation
 
   
153.99   Penalty
**** TREES ****
§ 153.01 APPLICABILITY; INTENT.
   (A)   Applicability. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all trees on city-owned property
or in city rights-of-way, and shall apply to such other tree-related matters as
is stated herein. The city shall have the right and the authority to impose the
regulations of this chapter on all applicants, developers and other persons who
place or maintain trees on city-owned property or in city rights-of-way,
including, without limitation, the authority to review and approve tree
species, locations and spacing under all circumstances. In the event of a
conflict between the provisions of this subchapter and the provisions of
Chapter 158, or any other city code or ordinance, the provision deemed by the
City Administrator to be most protective of promoting the proliferation and
maintenance and care of trees shall apply and control.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to promote increases in
the quality of trees and tree care in the city and to promote increases in tree
populations in the city whenever practicable.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.02 TREE SPECIES.
   The city shall maintain a list of acceptable tree species to be used when
planting within city limits. This list will consist of species currently deemed
satisfactory by the Public Works Director. This list of trees and no others
unless approved by the Public Works Director, are hereby approved for planting
within city limits. Copies of this list shall be made available at City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.03 LOCATION, DISTANCES.
   (A)   Tree spacing.
      (1)   The spacing of trees shall be no less than 40 feet between
plantings. Trees shall be planted as close to the minimum spacing standard as
possible. The Director of Public Works may reduce the minimum spacing standards
set forth herein for special planting areas designed or approved by a landscape
architect.
      (2)   Trees shall not be planted in city-owned right-of-way.
   (B)   Distances from corners and fire hydrants. No tree shall be planted
closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest
intersecting curbs or curb lines. No tree shall be planted closer than ten feet
to any fire hydrant, unless the location is previously approved by the
Coordinator of Public Works.
   (C)   Distances from utilities. No tree other than those listed as
acceptable tree species in the Public Works administration file shall be
planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility wire. Nor
shall any tree other than a small tree be planted over or within five lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
underground utility.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 CITY AUTHORITY TO CARE FOR TREES.
   (A)   The city and its authorized agents shall have the right, but not the
obligation, to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs on
city property and within any city right-of-way or utility easement, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety, preserve and enhance the quality of
vegetation and beautify the city. The city also, for the same purposes, may
prune or remove all portions of any tree or shrubs that overhang any city
property, city right-of-way or utility easement.
   (B)   The city may cause to be removed as soon as practical any tree on city
property or within a city right-of-way that is diseased or dying, or that poses
an irreconcilable threat to a utility or that otherwise threatens the public
health, safety or general welfare.
   (C)   Guidelines set forth by the National Arborist Association will be used
for tree trimming and maintenance activities performed by the city or its
agents.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.05 TOPPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or allow the topping of any tree on city property or
within any city right-of-way provided, however, that the city may permit the
topping of a tree under exceptional circumstances, such as when the tree has
been severely damaged by a storm or other cause, or when topping is otherwise
the only practicable action.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 PRUNING.
   (A)   Site clearance pruning.
      (1)   The owner of any tree on private property that overhangs any street
or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches of such tree, if
necessary, so that such tree shall not obstruct the safe passage of vehicles,
the light from any street lamp, the view of any street sign or the view of any
street intersection. The owner also shall prune such tree so that there is a
minimum of ten feet of clear space between the surfaces of the street or a
minimum clear space of eight feet between the surface of the sidewalk and the
lowest hanging branch on such tree. The failure to so prune is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance. If the owner fails or refuses to accomplish such
pruning within 14 days after written notice to do so from the Director of
Public Works, or his or her designee, the city shall have the right, but not
the obligation, to cause such pruning to be accomplished by city staff, or by
contractors hired by the city for such purposes.
      (2)   If the owner fails to pay to the city all of the costs incurred by
the city for such clearance pruning within 30 days after receipt of a written
invoice, then the city shall have the right, to the extent provided by law, to
place a lien on the property on which such tree was located and to perfect such
lien as provided by law.
   (B)   Safety pruning.
      (1)   The owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall prune all dead, diseased, decaying, broken or dangerous branches
from such tree and shall prune from such tree all branches that constitute a
menace to the safety of the public or to the health of any other tree. The
failure to so prune is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. If the owner
fails or refuses to accomplish such pruning within 14 days after written notice
to do so from the Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, the city
shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cause such pruning to be
accomplished by city staff or by contractors hired by the city for such
purposes.
      (2)   If the owner fails to pay to the city all of the costs incurred by
the city for such safety pruning within 30 days after receipt of a written
invoice, then the city shall have the right, to the extent provided by law, to
place a lien on the property on which such tree was located and to perfect such
lien as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.07 REMOVAL OF TREES AND STUMPS.
   (A)   The owner of any tree or stump in the city that constitutes a hazard
to life or property or that harbors harmful insects or disease constituting a
threat to other trees shall remove such tree within 60 days after written
notice to do so from the Director of Public Works, or his or her designee. The
failure to remove such tree or stump is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. If the owner fails or refuses to accomplish such removal within the
required time period, the city shall have the right, but not the obligation, at
the owner’s expense, to cause such tree or stump to be removed by city staff or
by contractors hired by the city for such purposes.
   (B)   If the owner fails to pay to the city all of the costs incurred by the
city for such removal within 30 days after receipt of a written invoice, then
the city shall have the right, to the extent provided by law, to place a lien
on the property on which such tree was located and to perfect such lien as
provided by law. No person, except those authorized or employed by the city,
shall remove, destroy, break, cut, deface, trim or in any way injure or
interfere with any tree growing in any street or right-of-way without the
written permission of the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.08 TAMPERING.
   (A)   No person shall attach or place any rope, wire, sign, poster, handbill
or other thing on any tree growing in any street, right-of-way or any guard or
protection of the same.
   (B)   No person shall remove, injure or misuse any guard or device placed or
intended to protect any tree growing in any street or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically authorized in this code, it shall be
unlawful for any person without a written tree and stump removal permit from
the city to remove, injure, destroy or undertake any procedure the result of
which is to cause the death or substantial destruction of any tree, within the
city limits, having a diameter of ten inches DBH or larger. Tree and stump
removal permits authorizing the removal of such trees may be issued by the
Director of Public Works for, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   The tree is dead or dying;
      (2)   The tree is diseased;
      (3)   The tree is damaged or injured to the extent that it is likely to
die or become diseased, or that it constitutes a hazard to persons or property;
      (4)   Removal of the tree is consistent with good forestry practice; and/
or
      (5)   Removal of the tree will enhance the health of remaining trees
within the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works may issue a tree and stump removal permit
where it is found that removal of the tree and/or stump will avoid or alleviate
an economic hardship or hardship of another nature on the lot or residence
located on the lot.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a tree and stump removal permit, the permittee shall
replace the tree so removed in each of the following instances:
      (1)   In the event the removal of a tree or trees will avoid or alleviate
an economic hardship or hardship of another nature on the lot or the residence
located on such lot; or
      (2)   In the event a tree is damaged or injured by other than natural
causes to the extent that it is likely to die or become diseased, or it
constitutes a hazard to persons or property.
   (D)   The permittee is encouraged to replace the tree in the event the tree
is diseased, dead or dying from natural causes, or in the event the tree is
damaged or injured by natural causes where it is likely to die or become
diseased.
   (E)   The permittee may not be required to replace the tree in the event the
Director of Public Works determines that removal of the tree is consistent with
good forestry practice, or in the event the removal of such tree will enhance
the health of remaining trees within the immediate vicinity.
   (F)   (1)   The permittee shall make all replacements with a new tree or
trees of not less than 22 inches DBH, the cumulative DBH of which shall equal
or exceed the diameter of the tree or trees so removed; provided, however, that
the DBH of replacement trees may be less than the diameter of the tree or trees
so removed in the event the Director of Public Works determines that full
replacement would result in the unreasonable crowding of trees upon the lot.
      (2)   Such replacement shall be made within 12 months of the date of the
removal of any trees for which such replacement is required, and such trees
shall be installed at the time of year most beneficial for transplanting the
particular species.
   (G)   Tree and stump removal permits may be denied by the Director of Public
Works for, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Tree does not meet any of the criteria outlined in this section;
      (2)   Tree is rare to the area and/or is a desirable specimen;
      (3)   Tree is to be used for milling; and
      (4)   Tree is to be used for firewood.
   (H)   The owner of a tree for which a tree and stump removal permit has been
denied may appeal the decision of the City Council. A written request for
review must be submitted to the City Council in care of the Director of Public
Works. All findings and decisions of the City Council shall be final. Disregard
for the decision of the Director of Public Works or the City Council shall be
considered a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 TREE PRESERVATION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In connection with projects involving the construction of new homes,
additions or detached accessory buildings requiring building permits, a tree
preservation plan shall be filed with the building permit application in order
to assure that all buildings and other structures shall be located upon a lot
or parcel of land in such a way as to minimize tree damage and/or removal,
consistent with the various setback requirements of
Chapter 158. The tree preservation plan shall specify the following:
      (1)   Tree preservation area and building activity area upon the lot or
parcel of land for which a building permit application has been filed (the tree
preservation area shall be protected physically from the building activity area
by a barrier to prevent penetration of construction vehicles, materials, spoils
and equipment into or upon the tree preservation area); and
      (2)   The general contractor, who shall be responsible for the
construction, erection and maintenance of temporary fencing or other physical
barrier around tree preservation areas so that all trees in tree preservation
areas shall be preserved.
   (B)   A tree and stump removal permit will be issued only in the event the
city finds that all reasonable efforts have been undertaken in the
architectural layout and design of the proposed development to preserve
existing trees. No building permit will be issued unless the tree preservation
plan has been filed with the building permit application and approved by the
Director of Public Works.
   (C)   During construction, all reasonable steps necessary to prevent the
destruction or damaging of trees (other than those specified to be removed)
shall be taken, including, but not limited to, the following.
      (1)   No construction activity, movement and/or placement of equipment or
material or spoils storage shall be permitted outside the building activity
area or within the tree preservation area. No excess soil, additional fill,
liquids or construction debris shall be placed within the root zone of any tree
that is required to be preserved.
      (2)   Crushed limestone, hydrocarbons and other materials detrimental to
trees shall not be dumped within the root zone of any tree, nor at any higher
location where drainage toward the tree could conceivably affect the health of
the tree.
      (3)   Appropriate protective fencing shall be temporarily installed for
protection of remaining trees.
      (4)   All required protective fencing or other physical barrier must be
in place and approved by the Director of Public Works prior to beginning
construction. The fencing must remain in place during the entire construction
period to prevent the impingement of construction vehicles, materials, spoils
and equipment into or upon the tree preservation area. All fencing must be
secured to metal posts driven into the ground spaced no further than ten feet
apart.
      (5)   No attachments, fences or wires, other than those approved for
bracing, guying or wrapping, shall be attached to trees during the construction
period.
      (6)   Other measures, such as construction pruning and root pruning of
trees directly impacted by construction, must also be indicated on the plan or
on an accompanying sheet and approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (7)   Unless otherwise authorized by the tree and stump removal permit,
no soil is to be removed from within the root zone of any tree that is to
remain.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fail to
abide by the terms of any tree preservation plan pursuant to which a building
permit or tree and stump removal permit has been issued.
   (E)   If, in the opinion of the Director of Public Works, the necessary
precautions as specified in the tree preservation plan were not undertaken
before construction commenced, or are not maintained at any time during
construction, a stop work order shall be issued by the Building Commissioner
until such time as the permittee complies with the precautions herein.
   (F)   Tree preservation during road construction shall be strictly enforced.
Specific requirements of tree preservation during road construction are
available from the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 APPLICATION FOR TREES AND STUMP REMOVAL PERMITS.
   (A)   In the event a tree and stump removal permit is applied for in
connection with work for which no building permit is required, there shall be
no charge for such permit. The application for a tree and stump removal permit
shall contain:
      (1)   Name of applicant;
      (2)   Commonly known address of the lot or property where said tree or
trees are proposed to be removed is located (PIN of parcel if tree is in an
undeveloped area of the city);
      (3)   A written statement indicating the reason for removing the tree or
trees;
      (4)   A general description of other trees on the lot, including size and
species; and
      (5)   Name and address of contractor or other person who will have the
responsibility for tree removal and landscaping.
   (B)   In the event a tree and stump removal permit is applied for in
connection with construction requiring a building permit, the application shall
be accompanied by:
      (1)   The tree and stump removal permit fee, to be determined from time
to time by the City Council;
      (2)   A tree survey of the lot, which shall be drawn on a scale of not
less than one inch equals 30 feet, and shall show trees having a DBH of ten
inches and larger, including a listing of species. In the event construction
activity is to take place in the root zone of such trees, protected trees on
adjoining lots should be shown;
      (3)   A tree preservation plan in conformance with the requirements of §
153.13; and
      (4)   A report from a certified arborist, if required by the Director of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.12 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   In order to avoid danger or hazard to persons or property, during
emergency conditions requiring the immediate cutting or removal of a tree or
trees protected hereunder, a tree and stump removal permit will be issued by
the Director of Public Works without formal application.
   (B)   In the event of such an emergency, if neither the Director of Public
Works or Street Foreman is available to issue such a tree and stump removal
permit, it shall be lawful to proceed with the cutting of the tree or trees to
the extent necessary to avoid immediate danger or hazard. In such event, the
person causing the cutting shall report the action taken to the Director of
Public Works within 48 hours thereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
§ 153.13 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE WORK.
   No person shall prevent, delay or in any other way interfere with work
undertaken by the city and its authorized representatives to plant, cultivate,
mulch, prune, spray or remove any stump, street tree, park tree or other tree
as authorized by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) Penalty, see §
153.99
**** LANDSCAPING CODE ****
§ 153.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to establish regulations limiting
the removal and ensuring the replacement of trees from property within the city
and, in doing so, safeguard the ecological and aesthetic environment of the
community.
   (B)   These regulations are further intended to serve to dissuade the
unnecessary clearing and disturbing of land so as to preserve, insofar as
practical, the existing natural vegetation with plant material indigenous to
the region, and preserve existing landscape buffers to minimize the impact of
adjoining differing land uses, enhance and protect the integrity of roadway
corridors and reduce the surface heat and negative visual impact of vehicular
use areas.
(Prior Code, § 21.01) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL. A plant which completes its life cycle in one year or less.
   BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide screening of undesirable views,
noise reduction and the like.
   BUFFER. A combination of physical space and vertical elements, such as
plants, berms, fences or walls, the purpose of which is to separate and screen
conflicting land uses.
   DECIDUOUS. A plant with foliage that is shed annually.
   EVERGREEN. A plant with foliage that persists and remains green throughout
the year.
   FENCE. A structure used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection or confinement.
   FENCE, OPEN. A fence where visibility at right angles to any surface thereof
is not reduced by more than 50%.
   FENCE, SOLID. A fence including gates which conceals from view of adjoining
properties open storage of materials and/or operations conducted behind fenced
areas.
   GROUND COVER. A plant that grows near the ground densely and spreads.
Generally an herbaceous perennial, sometimes a woody shrub or vine.
   HEDGEROW. A row of shrubs and/or trees which occur in a row, like a hedge.
Sometimes purposely planted for wind control in agricultural areas. More
commonly, an area along a road or field boundary which, left uncut, has grown
up with various plants, seeded by wind, water, birds or other natural methods.
   LANDSCAPE. An area of land including preserved natural vegetation on which
has been located lawns, trees, shrubs, other plants, water areas and other
features, such as, but not limited to, walks, signs, lighting, parking lots,
patios, decorative walls and fences.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A professional who has graduated from an accredited
university program in landscape architecture.
   LANDSCAPE DESIGNER. An individual with experience in landscape design.
   LANDSCAPE SCREEN/BUFFER, FULL. Maximum landscape buffer between two
conflicting land uses.
   LANDSCAPE SCREEN/BUFFER, PARTIAL. Selective landscape screening between
similar land uses.
   LANDSCAPE YARD. A area of ground required to be landscaped for the purpose
of screening and buffering a development site.
   NATIVE PLANT. A plant which is known to have originated in and is
characteristic of the state.
   ORNAMENTAL TREE. A deciduous tree planted primarily for its ornamental value
or for screening. May be any size at maturity but will tend to be smaller than
a shade tree.
   PARKWAY. The space between a sidewalk and the street generally planted with
grass and street trees.
   PLANT PRESERVATION CREDIT. Credit given for the preservation of existing
vegetation meeting the functional requirements of this subchapter, in lieu of
required new landscaping.
   PRAIRIE. A grassland or meadow, usually with native plant species; or a
planting of grasses and wildflowers characteristic of the native state prairie.
   SCREEN. A method of reducing the impact of visual intrusions through the use
of plant materials, berms, fences and/or walls or any combination thereof.
SCREENING blocks that which is unsightly or offensive with a more harmonious
element.
   SHADE TREE. A deciduous (rarely, an evergreen) tree planted primarily for
its high crown of foliage or overhead canopy.
   SHRUB. A woody plant, smaller than a tree, which consists of a number of
small stems from the ground or small branches near the ground. May be deciduous
or evergreen.
   SHRUB, LOW. Any shrub which attains a mature height of four feet or less
when left un-pruned.
   SHRUB, TALL. Any shrub which attains a mature height of five feet or more
when left un-pruned.
   STREET TREE. A tree planted in close proximity to a street in order to
provide a canopy over the street, to give the street a sense of spacial
definition and human scale, to provide shade and soften the street environment.
   TREE. A large, woody plant having one or several self-supporting stems or
trunks and numerous branches. May be deciduous or evergreen.
   TURF GRASS. Grasses planted, by seeding or sodding, to establish a lawn,
which is usually maintained by moving.
   WETLANDS. The areas periodically inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration under normal circumstances sufficient
to support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated
soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, wet meadows,
ponds and similar areas as defined by the Corps of Engineers.
(Prior Code, § 21.02) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.27 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the following:
   (A)   New construction (multiple-family, business and manufacturing
districts only);
   (B)   Parking lots;
   (C)   Transitional; and
   (D)   Free-standing and monument signs.
(Prior Code, § 21.03) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.28 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   When a landscape plan is required, the plan shall be submitted to the city
with the application for a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 21.04) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.29 PLAN PREPARATION.
   All landscape plans required by this subchapter shall be prepared and signed
by a professional landscape architect or landscape designer.
(Prior Code, § 21.05) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.30 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The submittal package for a landscape plan shall include planting and
site information. The landscape plan may be submitted on a separate sheet or
superimposed on a single sheet with the site plan.
   (B)   The submittal package must include the following information.
      (1)   Site elements.
         (a)   Title block, including the name of the project, designer’s name,
scale of the plan (no smaller than one inch equals 50 inches for plans with
trees only; and no smaller than one inch equals 20 feet for plans with shrubs
and smaller plants), north arrow and date of the plan;
         (b)   Property lines;
         (c)   Name, location, right-of-way and paving widths of all abutting
streets;
         (d)   Note zoning and use of all abutting properties;
         (e)   Natural features such as ponds, lakes and streams; delineation
of 100-year floodplain and wetland boundaries;
         (f)   Existing and proposed stormwater management ponds and areas;
         (g)   Required landscape yard width;
         (h)   Location, height, dimensions and use of all existing and
proposed buildings and other structures, including parking lots, sidewalks and
other paved areas, fences and walls and recreational equipment; and
         (i)   Approved grading plan at one-foot contour interval, with slopes
of 4:1 labeled.
      (2)   Planting elements.
         (a)   Location, general type and quality of existing vegetation,
specimen trees and natural areas;
         (b)   For plant preservation credits, vegetation areas to be saved,
including accurate locations noted and a list of typical species. Note methods
and details for protection of existing vegetation during construction. Location
and keyed labels of all proposed plants;
         (c)   Location of all proposed areas to be seeded and/or sodded;
         (d)   Plant list or schedule to include key symbols, quantity, correct
botanical and common names, size and condition of all proposed plants;
         (e)   Plant names used shall be identified in accordance with Hortus
Third, by L. H. Bailey, 1976. All plant sizes and conditions listed shall
conform to the American Standards For Nursery Stock, as published by the
American Association of Nurserymen, latest edition;
         (f)   Location and description of other landscape improvements, such
as earth berms, walls, fences, screens, sculptures, foundations, street
furniture, signs, lighting and paved areas;
         (g)   Planting installation details as necessary to ensure conformance
with American Association of Nurserymen’s Standards, latest edition; and
standards as specified in this subchapter; and
         (h)   General and specific notes to indicate or explain the design and
construction procedures to be used.
      (3)   Cost estimate and notification to permitting body.
         (a)   Upon approval of the landscape plan, a cost estimate prepared by
a recognized landscape contractor shall be submitted.
         (b)   A conditional occupancy permit will be issued when the project’s
buildings may be occupied but landscaping has not been installed due to weather
conditions. A final occupancy permit will be issued upon completion of all
landscaping
(Prior Code, § 21.06) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.31 LANDSCAPE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Appropriateness. The landscape plan should consider the type of use
the development will receive and use plants which will integrate the
development site into the surrounding area. Adjacent existing uses will
determine the type and extent of screening and buffering required.
   (B)   Screening. Materials may consist of evergreen trees and shrubs;
ornamental trees and deciduous shrubs with dense branching; shade trees; and
fences, waifs and berms. Planted screens shall be arranged in clusters of
plants to create optimum screening according to site conditions and as the
designer sees fit. Excepting limited space for full screening, plants should
not be spaced out equally in a line within the required landscape yard length.
   (C)   Fences and walls. Screening fences and walls should be built of
materials compatible with that of the main building. The use of corrugated
metal, corrugated fiberglass, sheet metal, chain link or wire mesh shall not be
counted as a screen in landscape yard calculations.
   (D)   Berms. Screening may be accomplished with the use of earth berms in
combination with plants. The minimum height required shall be two and one-half
feet, with a minimum width of 12 feet. Taller berms require more width so
slopes do not become too steep. Slopes shall not exceed 4:1. Berms should be
designed with gently curving slopes so they are not susceptible to erosion.
Staggering berms allow for drainage and provide visual variety. Ground cover
plants may be used to reduce mowing on berms.
(Prior Code, § 21.07) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 PLANT MATERIALS.
   Plant material standards shall be as follows.
   (A)   All plants shall conform to the American Standards for Nursery Stock,
latest edition, and shall be installed according to the current standards of
the American Association of Nurserymen.
   (B)   Plant availability and hardiness: All plants used in landscape plans
shall be readily available and shall be proven to be reliably hardy in USDA
Zone 5. Plants shall have a vigorous root system and shall be free from
defects, insects and diseases. Substandard plant material will be rejected.
   (C)   Deciduous trees shall be fully branched, have a minimum caliper of
three inches for nonresidential and 2% inches for residential development
measured six inches above ground level. Specimens shall be properly pruned to
maintain a natural form.
   (D)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height and fully
branched to the ground.
   (E)   Shrubs shall be supplied in one gallon or larger containers or balled
and burlapped and at least 18 inches in height or spread, whichever applies.
   (F)   Ground cover plants shall be planted so that an effective covering is
obtained within two growing seasons.
   (G)   At the intersection of all streets and/or the intersection of any
service entrance drive from a street to a zoning lot, line of sight easements
shall be established within the triangular area formed: at the intersection of
any two street right-of-way lines; and/or the intersection of any street right-
of-way line with any service entrance drive (both sides of such drive), by a
line drawn between such right-of-way lines and/or such right-of-way line and
service entrance drive line, at a distance along such line of 25 feet from the
point of intersection thereof.
   (H)   Plant materials, including deciduous and evergreen trees, shall not
cause a hazard. Landscape plant material overhanging walks, pedestrian or
bicycle paths and seating areas shall be pruned to a minimum height of 12 feet
above parking lot aisles and spaces.
   (I)   Landscape plant materials shall be selected which do not generally
interfere with utilities above or below ground level at maturity.
   (J)   Parking lot clearance: No shrub or tree shall be planted closer than
two feet from any curb face.
   (K)   Planting space required: Trees planted in cutouts, in walks or in
pedestrian areas shall have a minimum of four-foot by four-foot or a five-foot
diameter circle of open soil, and shall be protected by the use of tree grates
of edging which does not pose a hazard to pedestrians.
   (L)   Landscape plant materials shall be properly guyed and staked in
accordance with current industry standards, where necessary. Stakes and guy
wires shall not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (M)   Landscape plant materials shall be protected from damage due to foot
or vehicular traffic by protective tree grates, pavers, curbs or other suitable
methods which prevent soil compaction.
   (N)   Appropriate methods of care and maintenance of the landscape shall be
provided by the owner of the property.
   (O)   Additional landscape screening/buffering may be required when an
incompatible use occurs which may have a high impact on adjacent development,
as determined by the city. A high impact use is one which is expected to have a
strong effect on adjacent properties, due to one or more of the following:
      (1)   Noise;
      (2)   Outdoor loading spaces;
      (3)   Exterior storage, attractive nuisances and objectionable views;
      (4)   Dust, fumes, odors and vibration;
      (5)   Litter;
      (6)   Bright lighting during the evening or at night or headlights from
vehicles using the development at night;
      (7)   Height of structures above the normally allowed height for the
specific zone; or adjacent to development of a different zone or zones with a
lower building height limit; or
      (8)   Barrier screening/buffering required for safety and liability
reasons.
(Prior Code, § 21.08) (Ord. 04-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.33 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The owner, occupant, tenant and agent of each property shall be individually
and collectively responsible for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all
landscaping, screening and curbing whether or not required by these regulations
so as to preserve at least the same quantity, quality and screening
effectiveness as initially installed.
(Prior Code, § 21.09) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.34 PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all parking lot landscaping.
   (A)   Parking lot interior landscaping shall be provided for lots with
10,000 square feet or more of total parkway.
   (B)   (1)   Planting islands shall be placed in the following areas of all
parking lots.
         (a)   End islands shall be provided at each end of all parking bays,
except where corner islands are provided.
         (b)   Intermediate islands shall be provided after every twelfth
space, or after every eighth parking space for single-aisle parking lots.
         (c)   Center islands shall be provided between head-in parking for the
full length of every other parking bay unless there are three or fewer parallel
aisles of parking.
         (d)   Corner islands shall be provided at the end of two perpendicular
parking bays when these bays are at the edge of the parking lot.
      (2)   In the event that the site geometry of the proposed parking lot
does not allow strict adherence to the above requirements, alternate schemes
will be required to provide at least 10% of the parking lot area in landscaped
islands.
   (C)   Minimum dimensions of planting islands, including a six-inch curb:
      (1)   End islands shall be a minimum width of nine feet and a minimum
length of 36 feet, 45 feet with a center island, for a double bay of parking;
      (2)   Intermediate and half end islands shall be a minimum width of nine
feet and a minimum length of 18 feet, except in single aisle parking lots,
where the minimum width shall be 13 feet. In the case of angle parking, the
perpendicular length from the centerline of the parking bay to the aisle shall
be the minimum length;
      (3)   Corner islands shall be a minimum of 18 feet square, except in the
case of angle parking, where the perpendicular length of the stall from the
centerline of the parking bay shall be the minimum dimension; and
      (4)   Center islands between head-in parking shall be a minimum width of
nine feet and the same length as the parking bay.
   (D)   A curb shall be provided for all parking spaces adjacent to planting
or pedestrian areas to prevent vehicle overhang, except in the case of
handicapped access ramps.
(Prior Code, § 21.10) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.35 LANDSCAPING REQUIRED.
   (A)   A predetermined number of plants are required to provide overhead and
low screening of motor vehicles in parking lots. Shade trees and low shrubs or
ground cover plants are specified for each type of landscape island. Turf grass
may be used but will not be counted as part of the required plants. Ground
cover plants may be substituted for any or all of the low shrubs at a ratio of
14:1 when perimeter landscape yards also provide off-site screening for the
parking area.
   (B)   Required plantings are:
      (1)   Nine feet wide intermediate and half-end islands: one shade tree
and nine low shrubs or 126 ground cover plants (excluding turf grass) or some
combination;
      (2)   Thirteen feet wide intermediate and half-end islands: one shade
tree and 12 low shrubs or 168 ground cover plants (excluding turf grass) or
some combination;
      (3)   Nine feet wide end islands: two shade trees and 15 low shrubs or
210 ground cover plants (excluding turf grass) or some combination;
      (4)   Eighteen feet corner islands: one shade tree and 21 low shrubs or
294 ground cover plants (excluding turf grass) or some combination; and
      (5)   Nine feet wide center islands: three shade trees and 36 low shrubs
or 504 ground cover plants (excluding turf grass) or some combination; all per
100 linear feet of island.
(Prior Code, § 21.11) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 TRANSITIONAL YARDS.
   (A)   Applicability. All nonresidential and multiple-family residential
developments shall provide lot perimeter landscaping in accordance with the
provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Nonresidential property abutting nonresidential property. Where
nonresidential property abuts property zoned for nonresidential use,
landscaping shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Width. A landscaped area a minimum of ten feet in width shall be
provided.
      (2)   Planting materials. A minimum of 50% of the required landscape
setback shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall consist of 25% evergreen
trees a minimum of six feet tall, 25% shade trees a minimum of three inches in
caliper and ornamental trees a minimum of six feet tall and 50% evergreen and
deciduous shrubs a minimum of three feet tall. Whenever possible, berms should
be used in conjunction with the landscaping.
   (C)   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
   (D)   Nonresidential property abutting residential property. Where
nonresidential property abuts property zoned for residential use, landscaping
shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   Width. A landscaped area a minimum of 15 feet in width shall be
provided.
      (2)   Screening. Solid landscape screening to a minimum of six feet in
height above the grade of the subject property and in a design satisfactory to
the Administrator shall be provided along the length of the abutting property
line. If determined necessary by the city, due to topographical changes between
the abutting commercial and residential property, the minimum height of the
required screening may be increased to eight feet. Any landscape materials used
shall be made up of 25% evergreen trees a minimum of six feet tall, 25
ornamental trees a minimum of three inches in caliper or clumps six feet tall
and 50% evergreen and deciduous shrubs achieving a minimum height of screening
six feet at the time of planting. Whenever possible, berms should be used in
conjunction with the landscaping.
      (3)   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than 30 feet apart along the abutting property line. Such trees may be
clustered or spaced linearly.
      (4)   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all perimeter
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
   (E)   Multiple-family residential property. Multiple-family residential
property shall be landscaped as follows.
      (1)   Width. A landscaped area a minimum of ten feet in width shall be
provided.
      (2)   Landscaping. A minimum of 50% of the required landscape setback
shall be landscaped. Such landscaping shall be made up of 50% evergreen trees
and ornamental trees a minimum of six feet tall and 50% evergreen and deciduous
shrubs a minimum of three feet tall. Whenever possible, berms should be used in
conjunction with the landscaping.
      (3)   Shade trees. Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than 30 feet apart along the abutting property line. Such trees may be
clustered or spaced linearly.
      (4)   Ground cover. Except where occupied by planting beds, all
landscaping areas shall be sodded or seeded.
      (5)   Building perimeter landscaping. Building perimeter landscaping in a
minimum planting bed with a width of eight feet shall be provided along 100% of
all building facades except where sidewalks and driveways are located. Fifty
percent of the landscape requirements shall be made up of evergreen trees and
shrubs and 50% deciduous trees, ornamental trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 21.12) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 FREE-STANDING, GROUND AND MONUMENT SIGNS.
   Every permit application for a free-standing, ground or monument sign shall
be accompanied by a landscape plan meeting the standards hereinafter specified.
   (A)   For every square foot of sign surface area, there shall be provided
one and one-half square feet of landscape area.
   (B)   Any free-standing, ground or monument sign constructed or erected to a
height in excess of eight feet above the average surrounding grade shall be
required to be improved with an additional one and one-half square feet of
landscaped area for each foot of height or portion thereof that said sign is
constructed or erected above said eight feet in height. As all such free-
standing, ground or monument signs may not exceed a height of 12 feet above the
average surrounding grade, the additional landscaping requirements set forth
herein shall not exceed six square feet.
   (C)   Sodded or seeded areas shall not qualify as such a landscaped area.
   (D)   The required landscaped areas shall be improved with such plantings as
hedges, conifers, flowering plants, evergreens and the like, of a size and in
quantity proportionate to the size and height of the sign as judged by the
Administrator.
   (E)   In addition to the plantings herein described, the landscaped area
shall also include ground protection, such as, but not limited to, ground cover
plants, landscaping bar, decorative stone or landscape timbers.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of each party owning any lot or parcel improved
or to be improved with the landscaping required herein to maintain said
landscaping, including, but not by way of limitation, the replacement of any
dead or diseased vegetation, the trimming of any overgrown vegetation and the
maintenance of any groundcover or protection provided in accordance with the
terms hereof.
(Prior Code, § 21.13) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 TREE PRESERVATION.
   Tree preservation is addressed in §§
153.01 through
153.14.
(Prior Code, § 21.14) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 153.39 PROHIBITED VEGETATION.
   The following vegetation is prohibited in the city.
Trees
Botanical Name Common Name Remarks
Trees
Botanical Name         Common Name              Remarks
Acer negundo           Box Elder                Weak wood; invasive
Ailanthus altissima    Tree-of-Heaven           Weak wood; invasive
Betula oendula         European Birch           Borers; disease
Catalpa species        Catalpa                  Weak wood; litter; invasive
Ginkgo biloba (Female) Female Ginkgo            Offensive fruit; seeds
seeds
Gleditsia triacanthos  Thorny Honeylocust       Thorns; seed pods; thornless
                                                varieties acceptable
Maclura pomifera       Osage-orange             Large fruit; thorns
Morus species          Mulberry                 Weak wood; fruit; invasive
Rhamnus frangula       Buckthorn                Weak wood; fruit; invasive
Robinia species        Locust                   Weak wood; litter; invasive
Serbus aucuoaria       European Mountainash     Borers; disease
Ulmus American         American Elm             Disease; insects
Ulmus pumila           “Chinese” (Siberian) Weak wood; disease; insects
                                                invasive
Notes to Table:
Disease resistant varieties are acceptable upon prior approval.
 
Shrubs and Herbaceous Plants
Botanical Name        Common Name          Remarks
Coronilla varia       Crownvetch           Invasive; intolerant of other plants
                                           Highway/large embankments only
Lonicera japonica     Japanese Honeysuckle Very invasive; crowds out; native
                                           understory vegetation
Lythrum salicaria     Purple Loosestrife   Very invasive; replaces native
                                           vegetation in wetlands
Rosa multiflora oints Multiflora Rose      Very invasive; thorns
 
(Prior Code, § 21.15) (Ord. 02-8-6, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
153.01 through
153.13 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000 for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation continues to occur. Further, a separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each tree injured, removed, destroyed or for any
undertaking of any procedure, the result of which is to cause the death or
substantial destruction of any tree, within the city limits, having a diameter
of ten inches DBH or larger.
(Prior Code, § 6.24)
CHAPTER 154: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and scope
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Annual registration required
   
154.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
154.05   Action on permit applications
   
154.06   Effect of permit
   
154.07   Revised permit drawings
   
154.08   Insurance
   
154.09   Indemnification
   
154.10   Security
   
154.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
154.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
154.13   General construction standards
   
154.14   Traffic control
   
154.15   Location of facilities
   
154.16   Construction methods and materials
   
154.17   Small cell wireless facilities
   
154.18   Vegetation control
   
154.19   Removal, relocation or modification of utility facilities
   
154.20   Cleanup and restoration
   
154.21   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
154.22   Variances
   
154.23   Enforcement
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and of the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-
way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established prior
to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired
and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located, except as may
be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar
agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses or similar agreements. The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the city
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so determines. Nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city to regulate its
rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section or elsewhere in the code shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in 92 I.A.C. 530.30.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. As defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes; electrical conductors; and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The duly appointed Director of Public Works or his
or her designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or causes
a material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the
soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner
that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility owned
or operated by the city.
   FREE-STANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
Engineer or Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk
to the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The State Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as amended
from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the State Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. The State Department of Transportation.
   ICC. The State Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means,
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   JULIE. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program, operated pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under the right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. The entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
154.04 and
154.05.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. An action which is performable, feasible or possible, rather
than that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. An action done within a period of time specified by the city. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
154.10.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
      (1)   This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. For the purpose of this definition, PRIVATE
LINE means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer that
entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel,
or a group of such channels, from one or more specified locations to one or
more other specified locations.
      (2)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include:
         (a)   Value added services in which computer processing applications
are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for
purposes other than transmission;
         (b)   Purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such provider
to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications; or
         (c)    The provision of cable services through a cable system, as
defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as
now or hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an
open video system fee payable to the city through an open video system, as
defined in the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§
76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail, as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility, as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. As defined in § 21-201(v) of the State Cable and Video
Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the city shall register by
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility’s name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility’s facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in §
154.08, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall
construct any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within
any city right-of-way which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way; or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Director of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the city.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers’ premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be
filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in such number of
duplicate copies as the city may designate.
      (2)   The applicant may designate those portions of its application
materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or confidential
information as “proprietary” or “confidential” by clearly marking each page of
such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address, telephone and telecopy numbers and
an e-mail address contact;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the State Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance, as required in §
154.08;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund, as required in §
154.10;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
154.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and city have been satisfied;
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed; and
      (6)   With regard to installation of small cell antennas or towers to be
attached to new or existing utility poles or structures, the provisions of this
section shall so apply and, in the event of any conflict with the provisions of
this section, the provisions in §
154.17 shall control.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee that shall be determined by City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 06-06-4, passed - -; Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -; Ord.
18-7-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Director of
Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, the Director of Public Works shall reject such application in
writing, stating the reasons. If the Director of Public Works is satisfied that
the proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, the Director of Public Works
shall issue a permit as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the
duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The Director of Public Works shall specify the portion of
the right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event the Director of Public Works fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: ten
days after service of notice to the city by the telecommunications retailer in
the case of work not involving excavation for new construction; or 25 days
after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter, although in all
other appropriate respects, the telecommunications retailer shall be bound by
the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
154.04, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application
for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, being 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq., shall be
deemed granted 45 days after submission to the city, unless otherwise acted
upon by the city, provided the holder has complied with applicable city codes,
ordinances and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. At the election of the city, no
construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior
to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who
will perform any work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-
construction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the
city with such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary.
The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a city permit does
not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the city and
applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material
respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications
submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set
of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the completion of the
permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall specifically identify where
the locations of the actual facilities deviate from the locations approved in
the permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from the
requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for a variance
in accordance with §
154.21. If the city denies the request, then the permittee shall either remove
the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so it conforms to the
permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor.
(Prior Code, § 38.07) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying the right-of-way or constructing any facility
in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X,” “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
required policies to the city within ten days following receipt of a written
request from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement: “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may
not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after
receipt by the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the City Manager of such intent to
cancel or not to renew.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to cancellation, the utility shall obtain and
furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) above, such as
evidence that the utility is a “private self insurer” under the Workers
Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.
(Prior Code, § 38.08) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility’s indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Prior Code, § 38.09) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter, including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this section
shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Director of Public Works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Director of
Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this section for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this section, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day notice
period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee
shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in this section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Prior Code, § 38.10) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City’s right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
      (2)   The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this section.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within this section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of this section, the city or its designee may, at
the option of the city: correct the deficiencies; upon not less than 20 days
notice to the permittee, remove the subject facilities or equipment; or after
not less than 30 days notice to the permittee of failure to cure the
noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city. The permittee
shall be liable in all events to the city for all costs of removal.
(Prior Code, § 38.11) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city’s right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Prior Code, § 38.12) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
      (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way
shall be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and
construction principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the
principles and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as
amended from time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD, Eleventh
Edition, 2023);
      (7)   Flagger’s Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles.
      (1)   If a discrepancy exists between or among differing principles and
standards required by this chapter, the Director of Public Works shall
determine, in the exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles
apply and such decision shall be final.
      (2)   If requested, the Director of Public Works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance or operation
of a facility in the future.
(Prior Code, § 38.13) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT’s State Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
154.20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.14) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this section.
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Director of Public Works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
city’s utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city’s utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-ground
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance, as required by ICC’s
rules, entitled Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83
I.A.C. 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (See 49 C.F.R. §
192.707.)
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Free-standing facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any free-standing
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any free-standing facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view in a manner appropriate for the
surrounding environment, and the city may require the facility’s owner to
maintain such screening.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above-ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Prior Code, § 38.15) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Director
of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall
be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations
and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are
completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by
barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and
maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that
may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger or
auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected, as required by Chapter 6 of the State
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
154.21, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE
locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city-approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility.
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Communication, cable or video service   18-24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                   the city)
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 I.A.C. part 305 (formerly General Order
160 of the ICC) entitled Rules for Construction of Electric Power and
Communications Lines and the National Electrical Safety Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single-pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: the crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip augers” or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction; or cable shall be grounded in
accordance with the National Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a city-approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192, Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 C.F.R.
part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
         (5)   Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the state’s Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction.
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standard Specifications
for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the ICC or the standards
established by other official regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Director of Public
Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction
are those set forth in §
131.08.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the State
Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 38.16) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.17 SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the State Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (Pub. Act 100-0585, being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.).
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This section supersedes all sections
or parts thereof adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT. The State Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (Pub. Act 100-
0585), as may be subsequently amended.
      ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
      APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
      APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
      APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
      COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6),
as amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in
47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
      FEE. A one-time charge.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either: listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i through
VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part
1, Appendix C; or designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site
or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the city pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the State Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the State Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
      LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation,
order or local ordinance or resolution.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
      MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
      PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, association, trust or other entity or organization.
      PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government,
the state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
      RATE. A recurring charge.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
      SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and all other wireless
equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is
cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-
off switch and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other
services.
      UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in
part by a communications service provider or for electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control or a similar function.
      WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
equipment associated with wireless communications; and radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS
FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does not
include: the structure or improvements on, under or within which the equipment
is collocated; or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable
that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or
fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
      WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but is
acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
      WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider.
      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including
a particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory
basis using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or
mobile, provided using wireless facilities.
      WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A free-standing structure, such as a
monopole; tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing
or proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   (E)   Regulation of small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review but not subject to zoning
review or approval if they are collocated:
         (a)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
         (b)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
      (2)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
         (a)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989,
being 225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.;
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
            6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge; and
            7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to
be attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (b)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows.
            1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
            2.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than 75 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            3.   a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility
that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
               b.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
city in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner
than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
               c.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
one hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the
tenth day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of
the permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            4.   a.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this section.
               b.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
               c.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
               d.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
city and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The city shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application, with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
               e.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
               f.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (c)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
         (d)   Completeness of application.
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
            2.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
         (e)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
city; or
            2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (f)   Consolidated applications.
            1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
            2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
         (g)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less
than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations
unless the city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new
or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this section.
            2.   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals
of permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
         (h)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (F)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
section. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (F)(3)(d) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (F)(4), the terms
COMMUNICATIONS SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE
have the meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as
published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with the following design
standards and any variations from these design standards may only be granted
pursuant to the variance provisions of this chapter (at § 154.22):
         (a)   Screening. Whenever any equipment or appurtenances are to be
installed at grade, screening must be installed to minimize the visibility of
the facility and shall not be permitted to obstruct sight lines or to create
other traffic or safety problems.
         (b)   Color and stealth. All wireless facilities subject to this
section, including all related equipment and appurtenances, must be a color
that blends with the surroundings of the pole, structure tower or
infrastructure on which it is mounted. The color must be comprised of
nonreflective materials which blend with the materials and colors of the
surrounding area and structures. The applicant shall use good faith efforts to
employ reasonable stealth techniques to conceal the appearance of the wireless
facilities. Any pole extensions shall not be metallic or wood and shall blend
with the color of the pole upon which they are mounted.
         (c)   Wiring and cabling. Wires and cables connecting the antenna to
the remainder of the facility must be installed in accordance with the National
Electrical Code and National Electrical Safety Code adopted by the city and in
force at the time of the installation of the facility. Any wiring must be
covered with an appropriate cover. No wiring and cabling serving the facility
will be allowed to interfere with any existing uses.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this section, a wireless provider shall
not be required to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific
utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate
multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the city may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (F)(7).
      (8)   Height limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated. New or
replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in the manner provided in this chapter (at §
154.22).
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. Subject to the variance
provisions of this chapter (at §
154.22) and state law, the wireless provider shall comply with applicable
spacing requirements of this chapter concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. Subject to the variance provisions of
this chapter (at §
154.22) and state law, the wireless provider shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (G)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows.
      (1)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless
facility addressed in a consolidated application to collocate more than one
small wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support
structures.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment type and model numbers for any of the replacement
equipment; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (H)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the State Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201
of the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., Metra Commuter Rail
or any other public commuter rail service or an electric utility, as defined in
§ 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier,
public commuter rail service or electric utility. The provisions of this
section do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility’s
wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the Public Utilities Act.
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (H)(3), PUBLIC UTILITY has the
meaning given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: to
obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service; or to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this section.
   (I)   Preexisting agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this section.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this section for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms.
      (3)   The existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable
termination provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider
has collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted
to the city before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its
option under this division (I)(3).
   (J)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals $200 per year or the actual, direct and reasonable
costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200, payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (K)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
   (L)   Dispute resolution. The county circuit court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its
poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole,
with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (M)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city
harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property
damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or
occupancy of the city improvements or rights-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this section and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the city or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the city with respect to
consequential, incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (N)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own
cost and expense such insurance as is required by this chapter at §
154.08.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.17) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -; Ord. 18-7-2, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.18 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C) above, no utility shall spray,
inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation in the
city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control.
(Prior Code, § 38.18) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.19 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
city-initiated or mandated improvement in or upon, or the operations of the
city in or upon, the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the city shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior to
cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice, the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the Director of Public Works determines that
such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event the city does not direct the utility that abandoned the
facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the city, the
abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of
all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Prior Code, § 38.19) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.20 CLEANUP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Director of Public Works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project.
   (B)   The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
Director of Public Works for good cause shown.
(Prior Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.21 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities and any associated screening or landscaping on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way are to be
maintained by or for the utility in a manner satisfactory to the city and at
the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit, as follows.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way,
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Director of Public Works, or his or her duly authorized agent, of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the Police Department shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
   (D)   Gas pipes. Any person or company maintaining any gas pipes in the city
shall keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby
to any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 38.21) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Director of Public Works may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are not
practical in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Director of Public Works may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal.
      (1)   Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Director of Public
Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the City Council, or such other Council or commission as it may designate.
      (2)   The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
City Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision
or determination.
      (3)   The City Council shall commence its consideration of the appeal at
the Council’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide the
appeal.
(Prior Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38.24) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code, not to exceed $750 per violation per
day. There may be times when the city will incur delay or other costs,
including third-party claims, because the utility will not or cannot perform
its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows that
another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is
appropriate, the utility shall bear the city’s costs of damages and its costs
of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or removing the facility that
is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or commission may
review or overrule a permit-related cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions
may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Prior Code, § 38.23) (Ord. 07-11-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
155.01   Adoption of County Stormwater Management Ordinance
   
155.02   Amendments
   
155.03   Permit fees
   
155.04   Flood insurance rate maps, floodway map and flood insurance study
§ 155.01 ADOPTION OF COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE.
   The County Stormwater Management Ordinance, as most recently amended by the
county on September 15, 2020, is hereby adopted by reference and is in full
force and effect within the city and is found in its own compilation.
(Prior Code, § 29.01) (Ord. 08-8-2, passed - -; Ord. 15-11-1, passed - -; Ord.
16-8-3, passed - -; Ord. 20-11-1, passed - -)
§ 155.02 AMENDMENTS.
   Certain amendments, deletions and additions to the County Stormwater
Management Ordinance, as identified on Exhibit A attached to the ordinance
adopted herein, and as are adopted by reference, are hereby incorporated and
adopted by the city with an effective date of August 22, 2016.
(Prior Code, § 29.02) (Ord. 08-8-2, passed - -; Ord. 15-11-1, passed - -; Ord.
16-8-3, passed - -)
§ 155.03 PERMIT FEES.
   The following fees shall be paid to the city prior to the issuance of any
permit required by this chapter.
   (A)   Minor development and single lot developments.
 
Outside consulting review services        Time and material
Resubmittals beyond the first resubmittal $50/submittal
Review fee, includes one resubmittal      $150
Notes to Table:
A deposit fee pursuant to
Chapter 159 may be required
 
   (B)   All other development (intermediate, major, SFHA and wetlands).
 
Consulting review services                        Time and material
Resubmittals beyond the first resubmittal outside $200/submittal
Review fee, includes one resubmittal              $500
Notes to Table:
A deposit fee pursuant to
Chapter 159 may be required
 
(Prior Code, § 29.03) (Ord. 15-11-1, passed - -)
§ 155.04 FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS, FLOODWAY MAP AND FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
   The following is a list of the currently effective flood insurance rate maps
(“FIRM”), floodway and flood insurance study (“FIS”) data to be used in the
enforcement of this chapter. This list shall be interpreted to include any such
amendments to such studies and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
 
Community Number Date of Current County FIRM Panel Number County FIS Effective
                 Effective Map                            Date
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
                                                        
 
(Prior Code, § 29.04) (Ord. 06-11-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 156: DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
Section
   
156.01   Intent, purpose and scope
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Fees
   
156.04   Land development considerations
   
156.05   Design standards
   
156.06   Compliance with subdivision control regulations
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 INTENT, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the development of land and to
control the potable water, sanitary sewer, grading, surface water detention,
proximity to public sanitary sewer and proximity to public water for all
development projects other than individual single-family residential units. In
addition to the foregoing, the County Stormwater Management Ordinance, adopted
by passage of Ord. 04-10-3 and incorporated into this code as Chapter 155,
shall also govern regulations for development.
(Prior Code, § 19.01) (Ord. 05-4-1, passed - -)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the definitions found in the County
Stormwater Management Ordinance and the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.   ALLEY.
A public way, not more than 30 feet wide, which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, bulkhead lines or
shore lines of waterways or the corporate boundary lines of the city.
   DATUS USGS SEA LEVEL DATUM 1929 ADJUSTED. A reference point from which
elevations are measured.
   DETENTION BASIN. An area designed to hold an accumulation of stormwater
thereby reducing the peak flow of a storm drainage system.
   STREET. A public way other than an alley.
      (1)   Major thoroughfares which shall include all highways with the
county, state and/or federal route marking and for which a right-of-way width
of 100 feet shall be established. State Routes 23 and 176 and U.S. Highway 20
are designated as major thoroughfares.
      (2)   Secondary thoroughfare is any thoroughfare so designated by the
city on the official plan or by ordinance which shall involve intercommunion
vehicular traffic.
      (3)   Major connecting street is any public right-of-way utilized
primarily for intra-municipal travel, including the access to public and
institutional facilities and business and recreational aspects of the city.
      (4)   Minor connecting street is any public right-of-way utilized
primarily for access to abutting properties.
(Prior Code, § 19.02) (Ord. 05-4-1, passed - -)
§ 156.03 FEES.
   The following fees and charges shall prevail for compliance with this
chapter.
   (A)   The actual cost to the city for administration and services of the
City Attorney, City Engineer, City Planner and any other professional persons
as deemed necessary by the city with a deposit to be determined by the City
Engineer at the time the application is made to proceed under this chapter.
   (B)   The City Engineer shall determine if a irrevocable letter of credit or
a performance bond is needed due to the type or extent of improvement; such
irrevocable letter of credit or performance bond shall be approved by the City
Attorney.
   (C)   See § IV-E1 of the County Stormwater Management Ordinance, being in
Chapter 17.60 of the McHenry County Ordinances, for watershed development
permit fees.
(Prior Code, § 19.03) (Ord. 05-4-1, passed - -)
§ 156.04 LAND DEVELOPMENT CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Drainage ways, wetlands, floodplains and Soil and Water Conservation
District requirements shall be pursuant to: Chapter 51; Chapter 52; Chapter
155; and Chapter 157.
   (B)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of a certified community’s
enforcement officer may request review thereof by the City Council.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision, requirement, ruling or
interpretation of this chapter by the MCSC Chief Engineer may appeal it to the
MCSC by written notice filed with the MCSC Chief Engineer within ten days of
the determination.
      (3)   The applicant or any person or agency which receives notice of the
filing of the application may appeal the decision of city staff, as provided in
Article IV-A in Exhibit A of the County Stormwater Ordinance, to the City
Council within 45 days after denial of the permit or 45 days after the
commencement of work. Upon receipt of an appeal, the City Council shall
schedule and hold a public hearing, after giving 15 days notice thereof. The
City Council shall render a decision within 30 days after the hearing. Factors
to consider in the review shall include, but need not be limited to, the
effects of the proposed development activities on the surface water flow to
tributary and downstream lands; any comprehensive watershed management plans or
the use of any retention facilities; possible saturation of fill and
unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic; runoff surface waters
that produce erosion and silting of drainage ways; natural and type of soil or
rock which, when disturbed by the proposed development activities, may create
earth movement and produce slopes that cannot be landscaped; and excessive and
unnecessary scarring of the natural landscape through the grading or removal of
vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 19.04) (Ord. 05-4-1, passed - -; Ord. 05-4-2, passed - -)
§ 156.05 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Detailed engineering documents shall be as described in Chapter 157.
   (B)   Stormwater drainage system shall be as described in Chapter 157.
   (C)   Protecting buildings from flood damage shall be as described in
Chapter 157.
   (D)   Public potable water shall be provided for the land tract to be
developed, including to the extremities of the property; provided, that an
existing public potable water distribution system is within 500 feet of the
subject tract.
   (E)   Public sanitary sewer shall be provided for the land tract to be
developed, including to the extremities of the property; provided, that an
existing public sanitary sewer system is within 500 feet of the subject tract.
   (F)   A grading plan shall be furnished, including the topography and
physical characteristics of surrounding land tracts, and to provide aesthetic
elevation relating to the surrounding land tracts. A typical grading plan is on
file in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 19.05)
§ 156.06 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   Developers of land within the city and within its planning jurisdiction
shall comply with all the provisions of Chapter 157, which are hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 19.06)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500 for each violation. Each day a violation is determined to
exist shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance, which a
court may abate in the manner provided by law, including imposition of an
injunction terminating any development on any property for which this chapter
has not been complied with, as determined by the City Engineer.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for all fees owed under this chapter on all
property subject to development for which the fees are owed.
(Prior Code, § 19.07)
CHAPTER 157: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Subdivision Ordinance; Adoption, Administration
   
157.001   Subdivision control regulations
   
157.002   Collection
   
157.003   Completion of improvements
General Provisions
   
157.015   Title
   
157.016   Definitions
   
157.017   Purpose
   
157.018   Authority
   
157.019   Jurisdiction
   
157.020   Interpretation and separability
Subdivision Review Procedure and Submission Requirements
   
157.035   Concept plan
   
157.036   Preliminary plat
   
157.037   Final plat
   
157.038   Plats of vacation
   
157.039   Procedure for resubdivision
   
157.040   Plat corrections and addenda
Design Requirements
   
157.055   Conservation design standards
   
157.056   Traditional neighborhood design standards
   
157.057   Streets
   
157.058   Bicycle circulation
   
157.059   Lots
   
157.060   Landscaping
   
157.061   Natural area protection and management
   
157.062   Signs
   
157.063   Easements
   
157.064   Electric and utilities
   
157.065   Impact assessment
   
157.066   Construction specifications
Water and Wastewater Systems; Stormwater Management
   
157.080   Water supply
   
157.081   Sanitary sewers
   
157.082   Oversizing water and sewer facilities
   
157.083   Stormwater management provisions
Impact Fee Ordinance
   
157.095   Dedications; legislative intent; cash contributions
   
157.096   Dedications; criteria
   
157.097   Cash contributions; criteria
   
157.098   Consumer price index
   
157.099   Density formula
   
157.100   Reservation of additional land
   
157.101   Combining with adjoining developments
   
157.102   Site requirements
   
157.103   Objections
   
157.104   Condition to annexation
   
157.105   Indemnification
   
157.106   Distribution
   
157.107   Time of payment
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.120   Authority, compliance, approval and the like
   
157.121   Violations
   
157.122   Variations and exceptions
   
157.123   Separate publication
   
157.124   Engineering drawings and guarantees
Plat Certificates and Related Fees and Requirements
   
157.135   General requirements
   
157.136   Required certificates; preliminary plats
   
157.137   Required certificates; final plat
   
157.138   Tax search
   
157.139   Retained personnel fees
   
157.140   Filing fee; preliminary plat
 
   
157.999   Penalty
Appendix A: Engineering Plans
Appendix B: Land Development Exhibits
Appendix C: Endangered Species Consultation Action Report
Appendix D: Security Requirements
Appendix E: Retained Personnel Fees
Appendix F: Recommended Street Trees
Appendix G: Water Main Materials List
Appendix H: Fees
**** SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE; ADOPTION, ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 157.001 SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   The city hereby adopts as part of its Subdivision Ordinance the following
sections and all appendices, figures and charts and tables thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23.01)
§ 157.002 COLLECTION.
   In the event such fine and/or attorneys’ fees are due the city are not paid,
the cost of collecting such attorneys’ fees and fines shall be added to the
fine and attorneys’ fee incurred by the city. Each act of violation and each
day upon which a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 23.03)
§ 157.003 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, any improvement
contemplated by a final plat of subdivision approved by the city must be
completed by the subdivider/owner, in accordance with the applicable
requirements of this chapter, no later than six months from the last sale of a
lot by the owner/subdivider constituting the majority of lots (excluding
outlots, as designated on the final plat) in the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 23.04)
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 157.015 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as “The City of Marengo
Subdivision Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 101)
§ 157.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The words
“shall” and “must” indicate mandatory items, while the word “may” indicates
optional items.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 901)
   ADVERSE IMPACTS. Any deleterious impact on water resources or wetlands
affecting their conditions or beneficial uses, including recreation,
aesthetics, aquatic habitat, quality and quantity.
   ALLEY. A public or private improved roadway intended to provide
supplementary public access to the rear of a lot.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the
necessary forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to
carry out construction of a development from the city.
   AUTHORITY. The appropriate reviewing authority as set out in this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation at all locations delineating the level
of flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event.
   BUFFER. An area that preserves, provides access to or otherwise serves as a
necessary adjunct to natural areas by protecting streams, lakes, wetlands,
soil, air and habitat. Land that includes, but is not limited to, areas with
predominantly deeply rooted native vegetated land adjacent to channels,
wetlands or lakes for the purpose of stabilizing banks, reducing contaminants,
including sediments in stormwater that flows to such areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1633.png]
 
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls which is
built, used or intended for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals or property of any kind.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The person approved by the City Council as the
Building Official for the city.
   BYPASS FLOWS. Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property’s drainage system but not under its control.
   CABLE TELEVISION (CATV) COMPANY. A person, firm or corporation who has
obtained a franchise from the appropriate unit of local government to provide
television signals for subscriber use via permanently installed coaxial cable.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash or natural or human-made drainageway, which has a definite bed and
bank or shoreline, in or into which surface water or groundwater flows
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. The alteration includes, but is
not limited to, damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. An alteration that does not include the clearing of debris
or removal of trash.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The person approved by the City Council as department head
of the Police Department.
   CITY. The City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator of the City of Marengo.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The current City Attorney of the City of Marengo.
   CITY CLERK. The duly appointed Clerk of the City of Marengo; also sometimes
referred to as the CLERK.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Marengo.
   CITY ENGINEER. The current City Engineer who shall at all times act as an
adviser to the Planning and Zoning Commission and to the City Council.
   CITY STAFF COMMITTEE. A committee composed of selected city administrative
and technical staff, including the Building Commissioner, City Clerk, Chief of
Police, Superintendent of Streets Department, Superintendent of Water and
Wastewater Division and retained personnel.
   COMMUNITY WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM. A system serving more than one dwelling
unit, principal use or lot and owned and operated by a utility, homeowners
association or similar entity.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The city’s comprehensive plan, 2004, as amended.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A graphic exhibit which shows basic resource features,
proposed lot divisions, roadway layout and general drainage features of a
proposed subdivision. The purpose of the concept plan is to explore alternative
subdivision arrangements prior to investing time and money on detailed drawings
of an arrangement which may not be acceptable.
   CONDUIT. Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert and the like, used for the
conveyance or movement of water, wastewater, electric, telephone, gas or other
utilities, whether open or closed.
   CONGRESSIONAL SURVEY TOWNSHIP. An area approximately six miles square
identified by its unique township and range numbers with respect to a
designated principal meridian and base line.
   CONVENTIONAL PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An individual system employing
a septic tank and the soil treatment system, commonly known as seepage trenches
that are partially or wholly in original soil material.
   COUNTY. McHenry County, Illinois.
   COUNTY CLERK. The elected or appointed County Clerk of McHenry County,
Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER (SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS). The appointed head of the
County Highway Department
.   CRITICAL SOIL. Earth materials that have been disturbed and/or have natural
limitations extensive enough to require alternative systems or are perhaps so
limited as to preclude the practicality of on-site wastewater treatment.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A publicly dedicated, minor residential street with a single
outlet which is permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround and which meets
the standards set out in §
157.057(B).
   DATE OF COMPLETED APPLICATION. The date the applicant submits the
application, or the date the applicant submits the last item of substantial
supporting data, whichever date is later.
   DAYS. For the purpose of this chapter, business days, not including state
and federal holidays.
   DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISION STREETS. The Schedule of Minimum Design
Requirements for Subdivision Streets in the city (see §
157.057), sometimes referred to in this chapter as DESIGN REQUIREMENTS).
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
   DETENTION POND. A permanent natural or human-made structure for the
temporary storage of runoff, which consists of a permanent pool of water.
   DETENTION TIME. The mean residence time of stormwater in a detention basin.
   DEVELOPER. The owner or entity proposing to develop the property.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to real estate, including:
      (1)   Preparation of a plat of subdivision;
      (2)    Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days;
      (4)   Construction of streets, bridges or similar projects;
      (5)   Redevelopment of a site;
      (6)   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
non-agricultural alterations of the ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste; and
      (8)   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
deviation, direction or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, as well as the drainage system and environmental
features which are proposed after development of a property.
   DRY BASIN. A detention basin designed to drain completely after temporary
storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over the majority of its
bottom area.
   EASEMENT. A right to the use of land by the public, a corporation or persons
for specific purposes such as the construction of utilities or roadways.
   EROSION. The general process whereby earth is removed by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF. The volume and rate of flow of stormwater
discharged from an urbanized drainage area which is or will be in excess of
that volume and rate which pertained before urbanization.
   FEE IN LIEU. A cash contribution paid by a developer instead of providing
facilities required of development under this chapter.
   FINAL PLAT. See PLAT, FINAL.   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Marengo Fire Protection
District.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. (Also known as the SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).)
   FLOODWAY. The channel and that portion of the floodplain adjacent to a
stream or water course which is needed to store and convey the anticipated
existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1
foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or storage and no
more than a 10% increase in velocities.
   HALF STREET. A street with less than a full pavement width.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Health.
   HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT. The County Highway Department.
   HIGHWAY ROAD COMMISSIONER. The elected or appointed Highway Commissioner of
the Township Road District.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A group of property owners, whether residential or
nonresidential, formed to address the ownership and maintenance of facilities
owned in common or jointly by persons who own lots in the subdivision.
   HYDROGRAPH. A graph showing a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow-rate with respect to time.
   IDNR. The State Department of Natural Resources.
   IDOT. The State Department of Transportation.
   IEPA. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
   INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
   ISPE. The State Society of Professional Engineers.
   LOT. A parcel of land, occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in
Chapter 158, which is designated by subdivision plat, approved by the city and
recorded with the County Recorder’s office.
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
   MAYOR. The duly elected or appointed Mayor of the City of Marengo.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The portion of a larger system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels and swales.
   MITIGATION. The action to correct or prevent an undesirable condition,
including, but not limited to, compensatory storage, soil erosion and
sedimentation control, channel restoration and wetlands.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY EASEMENT. A right to the use of land for, but not limited
to, water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer and stormwater.
   NATURAL. Conditions resulting from physical, chemical and biological
processes without intervention by humans.
   NATURAL AREA. An area of land, not necessarily undisturbed, which either
retains or has been substantially restored to its original nature or native
character.
   NATURAL RESOURCE CONSERVATION SERVICE. A division of the United States
Department of Agriculture which provides technical assistance in soil-related
matters to, individuals, units of government and the like, through the local
Natural Resource Conservation Service District office.
   NATURAL RESOURCE INVENTORY (NRI) REPORT. A report prepared by the County
Soil and Water Conservation District which describes the soils, as shown on the
official county soil maps, surface geology and other natural features of a
parcel of land and evaluates in general terms its suitability for a particular
use.
   NET BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot, within which a structure can be
built, after required setbacks, yard areas, landscape and open space areas are
met.
   NET SITE ACREAGE. The gross acreage minus the acreage devoted to street
right-of-way, stormwater retention and detention basins, bodies of water,
public parks, school sites, municipal sites, conservation areas and areas with
slopes greater than 15%.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1635.png]
 
   NONCRITICAL SOIL. Undisturbed soil materials, as determined by on-site
comprehensive soil survey, that can support a conventional private sewage
disposal system, where at least the lower portion of the soil absorption part
of the system can be installed in original, uncompacted soils. Another term
having the same meaning for purposes of this chapter can be SUITABLE SOIL.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR EVENT. A rainfall, runoff or flood event having a 1% chance
of occurring in any given year.
   OPEN SPACE. An area lacking in any human-made structures and surfaces, other
than those used for public park and recreational uses.
   ORDINANCE. The City of Marengo Subdivision Ordinance.
   OWNER. The proprietor of a piece of property (or the beneficiary if title is
held in a trust) and his or her designated representative such as developers,
engineers, surveyors and other agents.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the
City of Marengo.
   PLAT ACT. An act to revise the law in relation to plats, approved March 21,
1874, as amended (765 ILCS 20510.01 et seq.).
   PLAT, FINAL. The official graphic depiction of a subdivision which is
ultimately filed for the record in the Recorder’s office. It shows all lots,
easements, streets and other dedicated areas and also indicates items such as
building setback lines, restricted areas for septic systems and any ingress and
egress restrictions.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A graphic depiction of the proposed lot lines, streets
and other engineering improvements of a proposed subdivision superimposed on a
map of the existing topography. Where septic systems are to be used for
subsurface waste disposal, it will also indicate soil classifications and
wetness categories used to determine suitability of various areas for the
septic systems (also known as TENTATIVE PLAT).
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The City of Marengo Police Department.   POLITICAL
TOWNSHIP. A unit of local government organized under an act to revise the law
in relation to township organization, approved March 4, 1874, as amended (60
ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.). It may or may not coincide with a congressional survey
township.
   POSITIVE DRAINAGE. Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property,
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. See PLAT, PRELIMINARY.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of real estate.
   PUBLIC UTILITY EASEMENT. A right to the use of land for, but not limited to,
telephone, gas, cable and electric. This is distinguished from a municipal
utility easement.
   RECORDER. The elected or appointed County Recorder of McHenry County,
Illinois.
   RECORDER’S ACT. An act to revise the law in relation to recorders, approved
March 9, 1874, as amended (55 ILCS 5/3-5001 et seq.).
   REGIONAL SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS. The elected head of the County
Educational Services Region.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER). A person
who is licensed to practice professional engineering by the state, or who is
allowed to practice by the state under a reciprocity agreement with another
state (see 225 ILCS 655/1).
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR (LICENSED PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYOR).
A person who is licensed to practice professional surveying by the state (see
225 ILCS 330/14(g)).
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel, including on-stream lakes, and that portion of the
floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) which is needed to store and
convey the existing and anticipated future 100-year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of flood
conveyance or storage and no more than a 10% increase in velocities.
      (2)   The REGULATORY FLOODWAYS for selected water bodies, for areas in
the city and within its planning jurisdiction, are designated on the flood
insurance rate maps prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
panel 170482 0001C, dated January 2, 1992, and parcels 170732 01758, 170732
0300B, 170732 0150B and 170732 0275B dated September 30, 1981, as amended. To
locate the regulatory floodway boundary on any site, topographic elevations
should be used where they are recited, otherwise, the regulatory floodway
boundary should be scaled off the regulatory floodway map and located on a site
plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation is needed
to determine the exact location of the regulatory floodway boundary, the State
Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water Resources should be contacted
for the interpretation.
   RESUBDIVISION. The further division of lots or the relocation of lot lines
of any lot or lots within a subdivision previously made and approved or
recorded according to law.
   RETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount
of stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration, emergency bypass or pumping.
   REVIEWING AUTHORITY. The person or board responsible for approving or
recommending the approval of the development under this chapter, namely the
Development Review Committee, Planning and Zoning Commission or City Council.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM (CONVENTIONAL). An individual, conventional on-site sewage
system employing a septic tank and the soil treatment system commonly known as
seepage trenches, that are partially or wholly in original soil material.
   SOIL CLASSIFIER. A certified member of the State Soil Classifiers
Association and/or a certified professional soil classifier member of ARCPACS
who, by reason of his or her special knowledge of the physical, chemical and
biological sciences applicable to soils, and of the methods and principles of
soil classification as acquired by soils education and soil classification
experience in the formation, morphology, description and mapping of soils, is
qualified to practice soil classifying.
   SOIL STANDARDS MANUAL FOR ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. A book
prepared by the County Department of Health which details requirements for the
design and installation of septic systems in various types of soil conditions.
   STAN DARD SPECIFICATIONS. The Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction adopted July 1, 1994, by the State Department of Transportation
(IDOT), as amended.
   STATE PLANE COORDINATES. The State Coordinate System Act of 2024, 765 ILCS
226/1 et seq.
   STATE’S ATTORNEY. The elected or appointed attorney for the state.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected, stormwater.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or human-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final
outlet from a property. The stormwater drainage system includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals,
channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins,
swales and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling
within a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration
capacity of the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground,
or are collected in channels or conduits.
   STREET. The term STREET and ROAD are used interchangeably and mean the same.
Classifications are set out in §
157.057.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting a public or dedicated street
right-of-way to which it proposes to have direct ingress and egress.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   A division of land into two or more parts for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all public streets, alleys, ways for public service facilities,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds and all the tracts,
parcels or blocks, and numbering of such lots, blocks or parcels by progressive
numbers giving their precise dimensions.
      (2)   The following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be
exempt from the requirements of this code:
         (a)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between: owners of
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (b)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use
as a right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipe lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (c)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (d)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
         (e)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
and
         (f)   Conveyance of a two-family dwelling resulting in title to each
dwelling unit being held by different owners where the document of conveyance
includes a condition precedent that the conveyance is subject to an agreement
between the parties setting forth the relative rights and obligations of the
parties, and that said agreement be recorded and otherwise be in a form
acceptable to the city subject to the following limitations:
            1.   The two-family lot be at least 74 feet in width;
            2.   The two-family unit is a “side by side” unit with a single
common wall and no common floors or ceilings;
            3.   The lot be zoned R-2 at the time of said division;
            4.   The two units of the dwelling be essentially of an equal size;
            5.   The agreement setting forth the relative rights and
obligations of the parties meet the following criteria:
               a.   The agreement be approved as to form by the city prior to
its recording;
               b.   The agreement provide that all exterior surface areas of
the building shall be of a like architectural design, color and construction;
               c.   The agreement provide that in the event of a dispute
between the owners as to any matter, that the county circuit court shall have
the authority to resolve any such disputes;
               d.   The agreement provide that no common surface shall be
repaired, altered, constructed or removed without the written consent of both
owners; and
               e.   The agreement provide that the city has the right, but not
the obligation, to enforce the provisions of the agreement.
   SUITABLE SOIL. Undisturbed soil materials as determined by an on-site
comprehensive soil survey that can support a conventional private sewage
disposal system, where at least the lower portion of the soil absorption part
of the system can be installed in original, uncompacted soils. Another term
having the same meaning for purposes of this chapter can be NONCRITICAL SOIL.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS. The current superintendent of schools for the
applicable school district.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER/SEWER. The person approved by the City Council as
the division head of the Water and Wastewater Division.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time period for stormwater to flow from
the most hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point
of interest in that watershed.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to
a given point.
   TWO-YEAR EVENT. A runoff, rainfall or flood event having a 50% chance of
occurring in any given year.
   UTILITY COMPANY. A person, firm or corporation who owns, controls, operates
or manages any equipment, plant or property furnishing telephone, cable
television, electric, light, heat, power, water, sewerage, gas (by pipeline) or
similar service for public use.
   WET BASIN. A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
   YARD. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings.
   YARD, FRONT. An area reaching across the full width of the lot, extending
from the front line of the main building to the lot line.
   YARD, REAR. An area extending the full width of the lot between the rear
line of a main building and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the front yard to
the rear yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1637.png]
 
   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person authorized under Chapter 158 to
undertake enforcement of city zoning ordinances.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The City of Marengo Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 158 of this
code.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 902)
§ 157.017 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In the subdivision and resubdivision of land, a developer is required
to comply with certain procedures outlined in state compiled statutes.
   (B)   This chapter establishes additional procedures and requirements
governing the platting of land in the city and is adopted for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To establish reasonable design standards and procedures for
subdivision and resubdivision of land;
      (2)   To provide for an orderly subdivision process and promote
continuity with existing developments;
      (3)   To encourage development which is compatible with the natural
features of a particular site;
      (4)   To establish guidelines for the dedication, use and continuing
maintenance of common areas;
      (5)   To establish a single document to serve as a guide in providing an
adequate street system; public utilities (sewer and water); surface drainage
and stormwater control; and other services related to the use of subdivided
land; and
      (6)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 103)
§ 157.018 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter regulates the subdivision of land under the jurisdiction of the
city. The subdivision plans and layouts are incorporated in the city’s
comprehensive plan. It is intended to provide for the orderly development of
the city and its environs; for the location and width of proposed streets
within new subdivisions, the reservation of roadway corridors for the
establishment of new collector and arterial streets in locations consistent
with the comprehensive plan, and connections with other existing or planned
streets; for the dedication and acceptance of land for public use; for the
installation and construction of utilities, roadways and other improvements
essential to service the subdivided lands; for the dedication and acceptance of
land acquired for schools, parks, playgrounds and other public uses; for the
preparation of subdivision plans and the procedure for the submittal, approval
and recording of subdivision plats in and about the city, and is in accordance
with the authority vested in the municipality under the provisions of the state
compiled statutes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 104)
§ 157.019 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any subdivision or dividing of any parcel
of land made within the borders of the city as well as to any subdivision or
dividing of any parcel of land within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all standards herein
shall apply equally to subdivisions both in the city and within its one and
one-half mile planning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 105)
§ 157.020 INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. When interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, the standards of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements throughout the city.
   (B)   Conflicts of law. Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions or
requirements than are imposed or required by other provisions of the law or
rules, covenants or other agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
control. However, nothing herein shall interfere with or be construed to
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, deed restrictions or agreements
between parties which impose restrictions greater than those imposed by this
chapter.
   (C)   Invalidity. If any section, provision or portion of this chapter is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 106)
**** SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURE AND SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 157.035 CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   Submittal and scheduling. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat for
approval, the developer shall submit to the city ten copies of a concept plan
and post a retained personnel fee as required by §§
157.135 through
157.140. The City Clerk shall schedule a pre-application meeting at a time at
least 20 business days from the date of filing.
   (B)   Information required. Except where the City Administrator specifically
provides otherwise, the concept plan shall contain at least the following
information:
      (1)   Identification.   
      (a)   Proposed name of development;
         (b)   Scale, date and north arrow;
         (c)   Vicinity map;
         (d)   Name and address of developer and engineer; and
         (e)   Boundaries.
      (2)   Existing site conditions.
         (a)   Wetlands, as shown on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife maps;
         (b)   Floodplain, as shown on the FEMA maps (wooded areas as aerial);
         (c)   Location of water and sewer facilities closest to site;
         (d)   Location of nearest park(s);
         (e)   Location of existing streets within 1,000 feet of site;
         (f)   Identification of hazards (underground storage tanks, electric
utility lines) on or adjacent to site;
         (g)   Existing easements on-site;
         (h)   Existing zoning;
         (i)   Environmental reconnaissance of the site, examining and
evaluating site conditions through the use of available historical information
regarding land usage, to identify possible environmental degradation or
impairment. Environmental problems should include potential, actual and alleged
hazardous contamination above or below the ground at the site;
         (j)   Historic districts and historic landmark properties; and
         (k)   Adjacent properties.
      (3)   Nature of proposed development.
         (a)   Number of proposed lots;
         (b)   Size of tract;
         (c)   Minimum lot size proposed;
         (d)   Approximate location of streets, water and sanitary sewer;
         (e)   Indication of whether floodplain or wetlands will be modified;
         (f)   Indication of whether park and/or school land and facilities
will be provided;
         (g)   Proposed zoning;
         (h)   Calculation of gross and net density; and
         (i)   Proposed land use ratio, including streets, wetlands and the
like.
   (C)   Staff and consultant reports. A least five business days prior to the
pre-application meeting date, the city staff and appropriate retained
consultants shall file a preliminary report with the City Clerk who shall
distribute copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission, other appropriate city
staff, officials and the developer.
   (D)   Pre-application meeting.
      (1)   The developer shall meet with the appropriate city staff to
evaluate the proposed concept plan and alternatives to it. Among other things,
the concept plan shall consider the future development potential of the
surrounding area, especially the extension of streets and utilities, and how
this proposal should relate to it.
      (2)   Staff will discuss potential problems with the development,
apparent violations of existing ordinances and suggest changes to the concept
plan, including the desire for alterative designs. Staff will not take action
other than to determine that the review is complete or that additional
information or alternative concepts are needed for its review.
      (3)   Review of the concept plan does not relieve the developer from
compliance with any changes in the city ordinances made after review of the
concept plan and prior to approval of a preliminary plat by the City Council.
Additional meetings with staff may be necessary prior to presenting the concept
plan to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (E)   Pre-application summary report. Staff will file a report summarizing
the discussions at the pre-application meeting(s) at least five days prior to
the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting.
   (F)   Determination on need for full concept plan review. Upon completion of
the pre-application meeting, the City Administrator is authorized to determine
the need for concept plan review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City
Council, if the concept plan involves the division of a lot, block or tract of
property not greater than four acres in size into not more than four lots or
blocks which does not involve any new streets or easements of access. The
Administrator’s recommendation shall be in writing and shall include any
conditions of approval or his or her reasons for disapproval. If the City
Administrator determines that he or she does not require review by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and City Council, the developer may proceed directly to
the preliminary plat process. Otherwise, all concept plans will be reviewed and
discussed at a regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission meeting no
more than 30 days after the pre-application meeting, and at a regularly
scheduled City Council meeting no more than 20 days after review by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (G)   Revised concept plan submission. The developer shall incorporate
changes recommended by city staff and retained consultants and shall submit 15
full size and ten 11 by 17 sized copies of the revised concept plan at least
ten days prior to meeting with the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (H)   Planning and Zoning Commission meeting. The developer shall meet with
the Planning and Zoning Commission to evaluate the proposed concept plan. The
Planning and Zoning Commission will provide informal direction as to the
generally acceptability of the proposed concept and will recommend
modifications if desired.
   (I)   Planning and Zoning Commission report. The Planning and Zoning
Commission will submit a report summarizing the discussion and recommended
changes at least five days prior to the City Council meeting.
   (J)   Revised concept plan submission.
      (1)   The developer shall incorporate changes recommended by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and shall submit 15 full size and ten 11 by 17 sized
copies of the revised concept plan at least ten days prior to meeting with the
City Council.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall schedule a City Council meeting within 20 days
of the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting after all required documents have
been received.
   (K)   City Council meeting. The developer shall meet with the City Council
to evaluate the proposed concept plan. The City Council will provide informal
direction as to the generally acceptability of the proposed concept and will
recommend modifications if desired.
   (L)   Validity of concept plan. A concept plan shall remain valid for one
year following the developer’s meeting with City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 201)
§ 157.036 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Staff meeting. Prior to submitting a preliminary plat for review by
the Plan Commission, the developer shall meet with appropriate city staff and
retained consultants to discuss submission requirements, conformance with city
standards, consistency with the concept plan and to recommend modifications.
   (B)   Plats with four or fewer lots. The City Administrator is authorized to
recommend approval or denial of a preliminary plat to the City Council, without
referral to or recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission, if the
preliminary plat involves the division of a lot, block or tract of property not
greater than four acres in size into not more than four lots or blocks which
does not involve any new streets or easements of access. The Administrator’s
recommendation shall be in writing and shall include any conditions of approval
or his or her reasons for disapproval.
   (C)   Submittal and scheduling and notice.
      (1)   The developer shall submit 15 full size and ten 11 by 17 sized
copies of a preliminary plat to the city within one year of completion of
concept plan review and shall post the required retained personnel fee prior to
the Planning and Zoning Commission meeting at which it is to be heard.
      (2)   The City Clerk will distribute the preliminary plat to the
appropriate city staff for their review and shall schedule a review of the
preliminary plat for a meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission within 30
days after all required documents have been received.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall not accept a preliminary plat for review
unless the property is appropriately zoned for the intended use and density, or
unless a petition to amend the city’s zoning ordinance or map has been filed
which, if adopted, would have the same effect.
      (4)   The developer will notify the following individuals and
organizations of the date time and place of the meeting when the final plat
will be considered. He or she shall furthermore provide the City Clerk and City
Attorney with an affidavit stating that each of the following individuals and
organizations was notified by U.S. Mail, certified mail, return receipt
requested and provide the Clerk with U.S.P.S. documentation from the mailing
indicating the address to which each notice was sent:
         (a)   City Attorney;
         (b)   City Engineer;
         (c)   Fire protection district;
         (d)   Homeowners Association (any which have indicated an interest in
the review of the subdivision);
         (e)   Plan Commission members;
         (f)   Park district;
         (g)   School district(s);
         (h)   Contiguous property owner(s);
         (i)   Township Road Commissioner (if annexation is being considered);
         (j)   Township Supervisor (if annexation is: being considered);
         (k)   Utility company representatives;
         (l)   Cable television;
         (m)   Electric;
         (n)   Gas;
         (o)   Telephone;
         (p)   Sewer and water utility(s);
         (q)   U.S. Postmaster for the city;
         (r)   State Department of Conservation Endangered Species
Notification;
         (s)   State Department of Transportation (if a driveway and/or access
permit is needed to enter any state road);
         (t)   County Highway Department (if a driveway and/or access permit is
needed to enter any county road);
         (u)   County Soil and Water Conservation District;
         (v)   County Department of Health (if it involves septics or wells);
and
         (w)   City Rescue Squad.
   (D)   School and park district action. All school districts will be
requested to agree in writing to accept the school donation or submit its
objection to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The park district will be
requested to agree to accept designated public open space in writing or make an
objection to the Planning and Zoning Commission. School districts and the park
district will be requested to agree to accept lands to be donated to the
respective districts before the initial Planning and Zoning Commission meeting.
   (E)   Information required. Except where the City Administrator specifically
provides otherwise, the preliminary plat submittal shall contain at least the
following information:
      (1)   Identification and description:
         (a)   Proposed name of development;
         (b)   Vicinity map;
         (c)   Location by township, section, range;
         (d)   Legal description;
         (e)   Name and address of developer and engineer; and
         (f)   Scale (one inch equals 100 feet required), date and north arrow.
Elevations (United States Geodetic Survey (USGS) shall be used).
      (2)   Natural area protection and management plan (see §
157.061);
      (3)   Nature of existing conditions:
         (a)   Aerial photograph;
         (b)   Boundary line of development, acreage of tract location of
property lines and names of subdivisions within 300 feet;
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of streets which lie in, adjacent to or
near the development;
         (d)   Location of water and sewer facilities together with a
description of the same which lie in, adjacent to or near development;
         (e)   Location of railroad, utility and other easements or facilities
which lie in, adjacent to or near development location of parks, recreation and
open space owned by the public or by property owners associations which lie in,
adjacent to or near development;
         (f)   Structures on the development site with an indication of whether
they will remain, be changed in use or will be removed;
         (g)   Existing elevations at one- or two-foot intervals which lie in
the site and within 300 feet of it;
         (h)   Identification of drainage basins which lie in, adjacent to and
near the development;
         (i)   Consultation agency action report to the State Department of
Natural Resources (IDNR), in compliance with 520 ILCS 10/1 et seq.;
         (j)   Location of water courses;
         (k)   Delineation of wetlands and floodplains, together with studies
explaining how the wetlands and floodplain were determined and evaluating the
quality of the former;
         (l)   Submission of an Archaeological Phase 1 Report prepared by an
I.H.P.A. certified professional archaeologist to identify any archeologically
sensitive areas, which lie in, adjacent to or near development;
         (m)   Location of any historic districts or landmark sites, which lie
in, adjacent to or near development; and
         (n)   Zoning on development tract and adjacent tracts. Such additional
information as required by the reviewing authority.
      (4)   Proposed development:
         (a)   Layout of streets, water and sewer facilities together with
relevant information, including proposed street typical sections, water and
sewer line sizes location and improvement plans of proposed parks, recreation
and open space; statement of intent regarding ownership of these areas or
facilities;
         (b)   Any proposed modifications to floodplain or wetlands.
Approximate location and size of stormwater detention areas together with
support information describing how the sizes of the areas were determined;
         (c)   Existing drainageways with proposed conveyance systems for areas
receiving runoff in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 155;
         (d)   Location of lot lines, setback lines and identification of
easements;
         (e)   Information describing the number of lots, lot areas and widths
for each lot;
         (f)   Soils information as required by County Department of Health,
where on-site sewage disposal systems proposed;
         (g)   Traffic impact analysis and other studies;
         (h)   Fiscal impact analysis;
         (i)   Any proposed change in zoning and list of all variances from any
municipal code regulation;
         (j)   Phasing;
         (k)   Construction access;
         (l)   A letter from each affected school district and park district
indicating whether they request the dedication of a school site, or a cash
donation in lieu of land;
         (m)   Appropriate certificates as required by this chapter; and
         (n)   If septic systems are to be used in the proposed subdivision the
developer shall submit a soils report with each copy of the preliminary plat.
   (F)   Staff and consultant reports. At least five days prior to the meeting
date, the city staff and appropriate retained consultants shall file a
preliminary report summarizing relevant comments with the City Clerk who shall
distribute copies to the Planning and Zoning Commission, other appropriate city
staff, officials and the developer.
   (G)   Planning and Zoning Commission meetings and recommendations.   
   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a regularly scheduled
public meeting to review the proposed preliminary plat. The owner or his or her
designated representative is required to be present at this meeting.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may require such modifications
or revisions of the preliminary plats as are deemed necessary in the interest
and needs of the community. Additional meetings with the Planning and Zoning
Commission may be required to review modifications.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend denial, approval
or approval with amendments, conditions and/or restrictions within 90 days from
the date of the completed application (including all supporting data), unless
such time is extended by mutual consent.
   (H)   Planning and Zoning Commission report.
      (1)   Within 30 days following the approval or denial of the preliminary
plat, the Planning and Zoning Commission, with the assistance of city staff and
retained consultants, shall prepare a report of their findings and
recommendation for action by the City Council.
      (2)   If recommending denial, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
include in its report a written statement setting forth the reasons for
disapproval and specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to
conform to this chapter or with the intent of the comprehensive plan.
   (I)   Revised preliminary plat submission. The developer shall incorporate
changes recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall submit 15
full size and ten 11 by 17 sized copies of the revised preliminary plat at
least 15 days prior to meeting with the City Council.
   (J)   City Council meetings and action.   
   (1)   The developer shall submit 15 full size and ten 11 by 17 sized copies
of the revised plat addressing conditions placed on approval by the Planning
and Zoning Commission. After all required documents have been received, the
City Clerk shall schedule the preliminary plat for a meeting of the City
Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall: accept; accept with modifications and/or
conditions; remand to Planning and Zoning Commission for further review; or
reject the preliminary plat within 30 days of its regularly scheduled meeting
following the action of the Planning and Zoning Commission. In the event of a
conditional approval, the Council shall require the developer to resubmit a
plat showing the changes required.
      (3)   Approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council is tentative only, involving merely the general
acceptability of the layout of the proposed subdivision as submitted.
   (K)   Preliminary plat expiration. The preliminary plat shall expire one
year from the date of approval by the City Council. Where approval has expired,
the entire process must begin anew, unless a time extension is granted by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 202)
§ 157.037 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Submittal, scheduling and notice.
      (1)   The developer shall submit 15 full size and ten 11 by 17 sized
copies of a final plat and five copies of the final improvement plans to the
City Clerk within one year after preliminary plat approval by the City Council
and shall post the required retained personnel fee prior to the Planning and
Zoning Commission meeting at which it is to be heard. Where the preliminary
plat shows the development to be phased, then the final plat for each phase
shall be submitted within one year of approval of the final plat for the
previous phase, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
      (2)   The City Clerk will distribute the final plat to the appropriate
city staff and retained consultants for their review and shall schedule the
final plat for a meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission within a minimum
of 30 days after all required documents have been received.
      (3)   The developer will notify the individuals and organizations listed
in §
157.036(C) of the date time and place of the meeting when the final plat will
be considered. He or she shall furthermore provide the City Clerk and City
Attorney with an affidavit stating that each of the following individuals and
organizations was notified by U.S. Mail, certified mail, return receipt
requested and provide U.S.P.S. documentation from the mailing indicating the
address to which each notice was sent.
   (B)   Information required. Except where the City Administrator specifically
provides otherwise, the final plat shall contain at least the following
information:
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of development;
         (b)   Location by township, section, range;
         (c)   Legal description;
         (d)   Name and address of developer and certification by registered
land surveyor; and
         (e)   Scale: one inch equals 100 feet required, date and north arrow.
      (2)   Property information.
         (a)   Boundary of tract, property lines of lots, street right-of-way,
dedicated areas and easements based on an accurate traverse with angular and
lineal dimensions (in feet);
         (b)   Any municipal, public utility or other easements, including
drainage, stormwater detention, road construction and pedestrian easements;
         (c)   Centerlines of streets with radii, internal angles, points and
curvatures, tangent, bearings and lengths of all arcs. Names of all streets
within and adjoining the plat lines and lot widths with linear dimensions;
         (d)   Accurate location of at least two concrete monuments constructed
and placed as required by the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.);
         (e)   All districts, such as library, elementary school, junior high
school, high school, fire protection and the like;
         (f)   Legal description for areas to be dedicated or reserved for
public or common uses with nature of ownership and purposes of same indicated;
         (g)   Appropriate certificates as required by this chapter;
         (h)   Historic districts and historic landmarks properties;
         (i)   State plane coordinates; and
         (j)   Any variation from the city municipal code.
   (C)   Supporting documents. The developer shall submit five copies of the
following supporting documents, as herein described, with the required final
plat submission.
      (1)   Final engineering plans shall, at a minimum, consist of the
following:
         (a)   Title sheet;
         (b)   Project specifications and general construction notes;
         (c)   Geometric plan;
         (d)   Grading plan, which includes the street paving plan, all storm
sewer lines and structures, stormwater retention/detention facilities, erosion
control measures, floodplain and wetland protection measures;
         (e)   Lighting plan, which includes a photometric plan that indicates
the layout of lighting fixtures, the maximum and minimum light levels and
underground conduits and cable for off-street parking and/or public street
lighting facilities;
         (f)   Street plan and sections;
         (g)   Construction details;
         (h)   Sanitary and storm sewer profiles; and
         (i)   Soil erosion and sedimentation plan.
      (2)   Drainage overlay: a reproducible overlay drawing, as required by
the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.);
      (3)   A detailed statement by the subdivider setting forth the nature,
kind, character and extent of all improvements that will be constructed within
the subdivision;
      (4)   A statement by a professional engineer registered in the state
giving a detailed estimate of the total cost of construction for all proposed
improvements; and
      (5)   Completed copies of all permit application forms (IEPA, IDOT, State
Department of Natural Resources, U.S. Army and the like).
   (D)   Staff and consultant reports. At least five days prior to the meeting
date, the city staff and appropriate retained consultants shall file a report
with the City Clerk who shall distribute copies to the Planning and Zoning
Commission, other appropriate city staff, officials and the developer.
   (E)   Planning and Zoning Commission meeting and recommendation.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a regularly scheduled
public meeting to the review the proposed final plat. The owner or his or her
designated representative is required to be present at this meeting.
      (2)   The final plat shall be consistent with the preliminary plat and
meet all applicable city requirements.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall recommend denial, approval
or approval with amendments, conditions and/or restrictions within 30 days from
the date of the completed application (including all supporting data), unless
such time is extended by mutual consent.
   (F)   Planning and Zoning Commission report. A least five days prior to the
City Council meeting, the Planning and Zoning Commission, with the assistance
of city staff and retained consultants, shall prepare a report of their
findings and recommendation for action by the City Council. If recommending
denial, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall include in its report a
written statement setting forth the reasons for disapproval and specifying the
aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this chapter and with
the intent of the comprehensive plan.
   (G)   Revised final plat submission. The developer shall incorporate changes
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall submit 15 full size
and ten 11 by 17 sized copies of the revised final plat at least 15 days prior
to meeting with the City Council. After all required documents have been
received, the City Clerk shall schedule the final plat for a meeting of the
City Council.
   (H)   City Council meetings and action.   
   (1)   The developer shall submit 15 full size and ten 11 by 17 sized copies
of the revised plat addressing conditions placed on approval by the Planning
and Zoning Commission.
      (2)   The City Council shall accept, accept with modifications and/or
conditions, remand to Planning and Zoning Commission for further review or
reject the final plat within 30 days of its regularly scheduled meeting
following the action of the Planning and Zoning Commission. If the proposed
plat is approved, the City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the order or
resolution of approval to a copy of the plat. If the proposed plat is
disapproved, the order or resolution shall state the reasons for the
disapproval.
   (I)   Final plat expiration. A final plat which has not been recorded within
six months after its approval by the City Council shall have no validity and
shall not thereafter be recorded.
   (J)   Signature on final plat. After a final plat has been approved by the
City Council, the developer shall obtain signatures from all required
personnel, as required in §§
157.135 through
157.140.
   (K)   Recording of final plat. When all signatures required on the plat have
been obtained, the developer shall submit the plat to the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall then present it to the County Recorder for recording and shall pay
all recording fees.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 203)
§ 157.038 PLATS OF VACATION.
   (A)   Submission of plats of vacation.
      (1)   A developer wishing to vacate all or part of an existing plat shall
submit 12 copies of the plat to the City Clerk and post the required retained
personnel fee.
      (2)   The developer shall provide the Clerk with an affidavit stating
that each individual or organization has been notified by U.S. Mail, certified
mail, return receipt requested, and provide the Clerk with U.S.P.S.
documentation from the mailing. The City Clerk shall deliver a copy of the plat
to the City Attorney and City Engineer.
   (B)   Plat of vacation distribution.
      (1)   The developer shall notify the following individuals and
organizations of the meeting date and time at which the plat of vacation will
be considered:
         (a)   City Attorney;
         (b)   City Engineer;
         (c)   Fire protection district;
         (d)   Utility company representatives:
         (e)   Cable television;
         (f)   Electric;
         (g)   Gas;
         (h)   Telephone; and
         (i)   Sewer and water utilities.
      (2)   The developer shall provide the Clerk with an affidavit stating
that each individual or organization has been notified by U.S. Mail, certified
mail, return receipt requested and provide the Clerk with U.S.P.S.
documentation from the mailing.
   (C)   Written approval of easements. It shall be the developer’s
responsibility to contact the utility companies and the CATV company to obtain
their written approval of any vacation of utility easements.
   (D)   Review of plat of vacation by Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (1)   The approval of the plat of vacation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission is required prior to submission of the plat to the City Council. If
a plat has been conditionally approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
all conditions of approval must be met before the plat of vacation may be
submitted to the City Council. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall approve
or deny the proposed plat of vacation within 30 days of the completed
application (including all required submissions).
      (2)   The owner or his or her designated representative is required to be
present when the Planning and Zoning Commission reviews the plat of vacation.
   (E)   Planning and Zoning Commission approved of plat of vacation
expiration. Approval of a plat of vacation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall expire one year from the date of approval. When such approval
has retired, the Planning and Zoning Commission must again review and approve
the plat of vacation before submission of the plat to the City Council.
   (F)   Review by the City Council. Within 30 days of its approval by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, a plat of vacation may be scheduled for
approval by the City Council in accordance with its adopted agenda procedures.
Twenty copies of the plat of vacation should be submitted ten days prior to
City Council meeting.
   (G)   Recording of plat of vacation. After a plat of vacation has been
approved by the City Council, the developer shall obtain all necessary
signatures. When all signatures required on the plat have been obtained, the
developer shall submit the plat to the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall then
present it to the Recorder for recording.
   (H)   City Council approved plat of vacation expiration. A plat of vacation
which has not been submitted by the City Clerk within six months after its
approval by the City Council shall have no validity and shall not thereafter be
recorded.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 204)
§ 157.039 PROCEDURE FOR RESUBDIVISION.
   The procedure for resubdivision of land in the city shall be the same as for
initial platting.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 205)
§ 157.040 PLAT CORRECTIONS AND ADDENDA.
   All minor plat corrections and addenda shall be reviewed by the City
Engineer before being presented for recording. Any change to the plat that in
the opinion of the City Engineer represents a significant departure from the
approved plat shall be first approved by the City Council prior to recording.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 206)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1639.jpg]
 
**** DESIGN REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 157.055 CONSERVATION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. Conservation design is intended to encourage more efficient
use of land and public services through unified development that is principally
intended to protect biodiversity, conserve community resources, preserve
natural areas and protect the health and safety of the community. This section
establishes reasonable standards and criteria to permit sufficient flexibility
in the development of subdivisions, to maximize the achievement of conservation
design objectives and to promote the following purposes:
      (1)   To guide the future growth and development of the community
consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan;
      (2)   To preserve the rural character of the community through the
preservation of open space and sensitive natural resources;
      (3)   To provide commonly owned open space areas for passive and/or
active recreational uses by residents of the development and, where specified,
the larger community;
      (4)   Protect and enhance biodiversity;
      (5)   Minimize development on and destruction of sensitive natural
resource areas and wildlife habitats;
      (6)   Reduce the quantity and improve the quality of stormwater runoff
from the new development;
      (7)   Minimize impervious surface area;
      (8)   Reduce soil erosion potential;
      (9)   Increase future property value; and
      (10)   Create livable and sustainable communities.
   (B)   Density.
      (1)   The maximum density shall be that of the underlying or preexisting
zoning, or as described in the city’s comprehensive plan for unincorporated
areas in dwelling units per acre. Dwelling units per acre is determined by
dividing 43,560 by the minimum lot area provided in
Chapter 158. Minimum lot area shall not apply to conservation subdivisions.
Density in a conservation subdivision shall be based on the net site area of
the overall project area by deducting the following:
         (a)   Any public right-of-way within the project boundary existing at
the time the development plan is submitted;
         (b)   The area of land within a floodplain, designated wetland or
existing water body that exceeds the minimum acreage required for restricted
open space. Where floodplains and wetlands overlap, they shall only be counted
once; and
         (c)   Stormwater detention and right-of-way dedication.
      (2)   The net buildable area multiplied by the dwelling units per acre
(as described above) equals the number of units allowed within a conservation
subdivision.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1641.png]
 
   (C)   Lot clustering siting standards.
      (1)   Lots are encouraged to be grouped into clusters. It is recommended
that each cluster contain between five and 20 units.
      (2)   Clusters shall be arranged to minimize negative impacts on the
natural, scenic and cultural resources of the site and conflicts between
incompatible uses.
      (3)   Clusters shall avoid encroaching on rare plant communities, high
quality sites or endangered species identified by the State Department of
Natural Resources.
      (4)   Whenever possible, open space shall connect with existing or
potential open space lands on adjoining parcels and local or regional
recreational trails.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.png]
 
   (D)   Open space. At least 40% of the net site acreage of a conservation
subdivision shall be set aside as open space. The open space counted toward
this set-aside shall not include parkways, landscape islands, wetlands,
floodplains or other inherently unbuildable areas, and should meet the
definition of open space provided in §
157.016.
   (E)   Curb and gutter/vegetated swales. All streets with lot frontages of
100 feet or less must provide enclosed drainage and curb and gutter. The use of
swales vegetated with native materials is allowed for streets with lot
frontages greater than 80 feet.
   (F)   Sidewalks/walkways.
      (1)   Sidewalks or walkways are required on both sides of street rights-
or-way, unless there are no adjacent residential lots, in which case sidewalks
are only required on one side of the street. Sidewalks must be separated from
moving traffic lanes.
      (2)   Walkways shall be provided to connect residential areas to common
open space areas and to provide convenient pedestrian access throughout the
conservation development and from the conservation development to other areas
of the community.
      (3)   When the proposed walkway system provides pedestrian access equal
to or better than sidewalks along street rights-of-way, sidewalks along public
streets are not required.
   (G)   Street light spacing. Street lights shall be provided at every street
intersection so as to adequately light the intersection. No maximum or minimum
street light spacing is required for conservation subdivisions. (See also §
157.064(D).)
   (H)   Natural area, buffer protection and conservation. Natural areas and
buffers shall be preserved or restored on the site and will include native
vegetation, wetlands, natural floodplain storage or other valuable
environmental or biological resources in accordance with the natural area
protection and management plan.
      (1)   An area designated for natural area and buffer protection purposes
may be:
         (a)   Preserved or restored to its natural state;
         (b)   Designed and intended for the passive use and/or enjoyment of
residents of the proposed development; or
         (c)   Preserved in order to expand and extend the usefulness of
existing preserved open space and natural areas.
      (2)   Dedicated buffers and natural areas shall be designed and located
to conserve significant natural features located on the site.
         (a)   A ten-foot conservation easement buffer shall be provided for
all lots where the rear yard areas abut a conservation area owned or maintained
by the County Conservation District.
         (b)   The buffer easement shall consist of dense native vegetation,
fence or berm to create a physical barrier between the residential use and
Conservation District property.
      (3)   Dedicated natural areas shall be interconnected with open space
areas, greenways and trails on abutting parcels where possible and appropriate.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1645.png]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 301)
§ 157.056 TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. Traditional neighborhood design (TND) is a concept and
practice that focuses on the creation of mixed use pedestrian oriented
neighborhoods, similar to those found in the traditional urban core of the
city. While TND subdivisions may support a mix of land uses, they are intended
to be comprised primarily of single-family residential uses. A TND
neighborhood:
      (1)   Is compact;
      (2)   Is designed for the human scale;
      (3)   May provide a mix of uses, including residential, limited
commercial, civic and open spaces in close proximity to one another within the
neighborhood;
      (4)   Provides a mix of housing styles, types and sizes;
      (5)   Incorporates a system of relatively narrow, interconnected streets
with sidewalks, bikeways and transit that offer multiple routes for motorists,
pedestrians and bicyclists;
      (6)   Retains existing buildings with historical features;
      (7)   Incorporates significant environ mental features; and
      (8)   Is consistent with the city’s comprehensive plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1647.png]
 
   (B)   Street layout. Streets should generally be laid out in traditional
grid pattern, maintaining the existing street grid, where present, and
restoring any disrupted street grid where possible.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1649.png]
 
   (C)   Blocks. Blocks shall be no less than 350 feet and no greater than 650
feet in length. Block widths should generally range between 250 and 400 feet in
depth.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all streets
within TND subdivisions (widths shall be consistent with the tables provided in
§
157.057).
   (E)   Crosswalks. Crosswalks are required at all collector and arterial
intersections with sidewalks. Crosswalks shall be well lit and clearly marked
with contrasting paving material or striping.
   (F)   Street light spacing. Street lighting shall be provided along all
streets within a TND subdivision. Generally more, smaller lights, as opposed to
fewer, high-intensity lights, should be used. Street lights should be installed
on both sides of the street at alternating intervals between 75 to 100 feet.
The final spacing between street lights shall be based on a city approved
photometric plan. The minimum light level for pedestrian areas shall be 0.2
foot-candle. (Also see §
157.064(D))
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1651.png]
 
   (G)   Open space. At least 15% of the net buildable acreage of TND
subdivisions must be open space.
      (1)   The open space counted toward this set-aside shall not include
rights-of-way, parkways, landscape islands, wetlands, floodplains or other
inherently unbuildable areas, and should meet the definition of open space
provided in §
157.016.
      (2)   All residences should be located within one quarter mile of common
open space.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 302)
§ 157.057 STREETS.
   (A)   Classification of streets. The developer shall classify each street
shown on the plat of subdivision as to its functional use as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary
means of access to abutting properties.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. An arterial street is a major street that serves
to circulate traffic into, out of or around the city, and which carries, or is
intended to carry high volumes of traffic.
      (3)   BUSINESS ACCESS AND INDUSTRIAL ACCESS STREETS. Streets providing
access to commercial or industrial property shall be classified as BUSINESS
ACCESS STREETS or INDUSTRIAL ACCESS STREETS, respectively.
      (4)   COLLECTOR STREET. A collector street is a street that serves to
carry traffic from local streets to other collector streets or arterial
streets. It may provide limited access to some abutting properties.
      (5)   LOCAL/TRADITIONAL STREET. A local street is a street whose primary
function is to provide access to abutting properties within traditional
subdivision.
   (B)   CUL-DE-SACS.
      (1)   Cul-de-sacs are prohibited. Based on unique site conditions, the
City Council may allow cul-de-sacs consistent with standards set forth in this
sections.
      (2)   Preferred alternatives to traditional cul-de-sacs are provided
below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1655.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1657.png]
 
   (C)   Continuing streets. All existing streets which terminate at the
boundary of a proposed subdivision shall be continued into the subdivisions and
be incorporated into the street pattern.
   (D)   Dead-end street. Dead-end streets are prohibited. However where a
street is intended to extend beyond the perimeter of the subdivision to provide
access to adjoining undeveloped land, a temporary “T-turnaround” may be
provided. T-turnarounds may be no longer than one lot in length and driveway
access shall not be allowed to or from it.
   (E)   Access to adjacent property. Access to adjacent properties in the form
of stubbed roads is required. However, access shall not be required on a side
of a tract where physical barriers would prevent a street from practically
being continued, as where the boundary of the tract is a creek which could be
crossed only with a bridge, or a steep slope which could not be graded to an
acceptable slope for the street intended.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.png]
 
   (F)   Alleys. Alleys are permitted in traditional design neighborhoods and
in conservation design neighborhoods when deemed appropriate by the Planning
and Zoning Commission. Alleys are required for single-family detached units
with widths of 60 feet or less. Alleys must provide a minimum 16-foot wide
vehicular pavement width. No building or accessory structure shall be located
within ten feet of the alley pavement. Alleys shall not terminate in dead ends
and shall not intersect with arterial or collector streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1661.png]
 
   (G)   Half streets. Half streets are prohibited.
   (H)   Private streets. Private streets are prohibited.
   (I)   Medians. The developer may elect to build streets, or portions
thereof, with a landscaped median. See the figures and tables at the end of
this sections for requirements. Shade trees shall be planted no greater than 40
feet on center. Supplemental landscaping may be required. Cross-sections shall
be widened as necessary.
   (J)   Street names.
      (1)   Each street shall have a unique name which will not duplicate any
other in the city or adjoining township. Proposed streets which are in
alignment with or join an existing street sh
all bear the name of the existing street.
      (2)   A loop street shall have only one street name for the entire loop.
The developer should consider naming proposed streets, which connect to
Historic Route 20, for the original settlers of the subject property.
      (3)   Street names are to be approved by the city.
   (K)   Intersection of streets.
      (1)   Streets shall be designed to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. The minimum allowable angle of intersection of two streets is 70
degrees. Whenever possible, the intersection of more than two streets shall be
avoided.
      (2)   The first 100 feet into the intersection shall be limited to a
maximum grade of 2%.
   (L)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall be prohibited.
   (M)   Topography and layout. Streets shall be approximately related to the
topography. Grades of streets shall conform, to extent practical, to original
contours.
   (N)   Sight distances. Sight distances shall be consistent with the IDOT
Local Road Manual.
   (O)   Reverse curves. Reverse curves on arterials and collectors will be
separated by a straight roadway section consistent with standards set out in
the IDOT Local Road Manual.
   (P)   Return radii at intersections and corner lots. Return radii at all
intersections shall be measured to the back of curb with curb and gutter, and
to the edge of pavement without curb and gutter. See the tables and figures
below.
Table 1 - Minimum Design Requirements for Urban/Traditional Neighborhood
Subdivision Streets
Standard Arterial Collector Local (Traditional) Business and Industrial Access
Table 1 - Minimum Design Requirements for Urban/Traditional Neighborhood Subdivision Streets
Standard    Arterial                                                                    Collector                                                                    Local (Traditional)                                                         Business and Industrial Access
Alley       Not intersecting                                                            Not intersecting                                                             Required for single-family detached units with lot widths of 60 feet or     Not allowed
                                                                                                                                                                     less. Allowed in all other circumstances. 16 feet wide pavement required.
Bike lane   Off-street bike lane required on one side (opposite side of sidewalk).      Off-street bike lane required on one side (opposite side of sidewalk).       Optional on-street striped (4 feet minimum)                                 Optional off-street bike lane.
            8-12 feet wide                                                              8-12 feet wide
Cul-de-sac  Not allowed                                                                 Not allowed                                                                  Allowed by exception only. Maximum length is 500 feet. Minimum bulb ROW     Allowed by exception only. Maximum length is 500 feet. Minimum bulb
                                                                                                                                                                     diameter is 140 feet and pavement is 100’.                                diameter is 100 feet.
Curb and    Required M-6.12; B-6.12                                                     Required M-6.12; B-6.12                                                      Required M-6.12; M-3.12; B-6.12                                             Required M-6.12; B-6.12
gutter
Curb radii  35 feet                                                                     25 feet                                                                      25 feet (10 feet for alley)                                                 35 feet
Horizontal
alignment   467’                                                                      467’                                                                       250’                                                                      467’
(centerline
radius)
Median/turn 18 feet wide, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and gutter        18 feet wide, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and gutter         Optional with city approval.                                                18 feet wide if provided, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and
lane                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             gutter18 feet wide, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and gutter
Minimum
right-of-   100 feet                                                                    70 feet                                                                      60 feet                                                                     70 feet
way
On-street   Not allowed                                                                 Not allowed                                                                  One or both sides 8 feet each                                               Not allowed
parking
Parkway     25 feet on each side                                                        15 feet on each side                                                         10 feet each side                                                           15 feet on each side
width
Pavement    8” BBC base 4” N70 Superpave, (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 8” P7” BBC base, 4” N50 Superpave, (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 8” P6” BBC base 4” N50 Superpave, (2 -1/2” surface, 21/i binder) or 6” P9” BBC base 4” N70 Superpave, (2-1/2” surface, 21/i binder) or 8” PC
Structure   concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base                       concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base                        concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base                       concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base
Pavement    24 feet minimum (without median or turning lane)                            24 feet minimum (without median or turning lane)                             26-28 feet                                                                  24 feet(without median or turning lane)
width
Sidewalk    Both sides of the street, 4 feet wide, 1 foot from ROW                      Both sides of the street 4 feet wide, 1 foot from ROW                        Both sides of street 5 feet wide                                            Both sides of street or one side with bike path, 4 feet wide
Travel lane 12 feet each                                                                12 feet each                                                                 10 feet each                                                                12 feet
width
Vertical
alignment   6%/0.5%                                                                     8%/0.5                                                                       8%/0.5                                                                      6%/0.5%
(max./min.)
Notes to Table:
BBC - Bituminous Base Course
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1653.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1663.jpg]
 
 Table 2 Minimum Design Requirements for Local/Conservation Design for
Subdivisions Streets
Standard Arterial Collector Local Street Business and Industrial Access
 Table 2 Minimum Design Requirements for Local/Conservation Design for Subdivisions Streets
Standard    Arterial                                                                   Collector                                                                    Local Street                                                              Business and Industrial Access
Alley       Not intersecting                                                           Not intersecting                                                             Allowed 16 feet wide pavement                                             Not allowed
Bike lane   Off-street bike lane required on one side (opposite side of sidewalk). 8-  Off-Street bike lane required on one side (opposite side of sidewalk). 8-12  Optional On-Street stripped (4 feet minimum)                              Optional
            12 feet wide                                                               feet wide
Cul-de-sac  Not allowed                                                                Not allowed                                                                  Allowed by exception only. Maximum length is 500 feet. Minimum bulb       Allowed by exception only. Maximum length is 500 feet. Minimum bulb
                                                                                                                                                                    diameter is 100 feet.                                                     diameter is 100 feet.
Curb and    If required by city, use standards set in Table 1 of this chapter          If required by city, use standards set in Table 1 of this chapter            Require in clusters where lot frontages are less than 80 feet             If required by city, use standards set in Table 1 of this chapter
gutter
Curb radii  35 feet                                                                    25 feet                                                                      15 feet (10 feet for alley)                                               35 feet
Horizontal
alignment   467’                                                                     467’                                                                       250’                                                                    467’
(centerline
radius)
Maximum     3:1                                                                        3:1                                                                          3:1                                                                       3:1
Slopes      4:1                                                                        3:1                                                                          3:1                                                                       3:1
Median/turn 18 feet wide, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and gutter       18 feet wide, painted and mounted or landscaped with curb and gutter         Optional with city approval. 18 feet wide if provided.                    18 feet wide, painted and mounted, or landscaped with curb and gutter
lane
Minimum
right-of-   100 feet                                                                   90 feet                                                                      70 feet                                                                   90 feet
way
On-street   Not allowed                                                                Not allowed                                                                  One or both sides 8 feet each                                             Not allowed
parking
Parkway     10-28.5 feet on each side                                                  10-28.5 feet on each side                                                    10 feet each side                                                         10-28.5 feet on each side
width
Pavement    24 feet minimum (without median or turning lane)                           24 feet minimum (without median or turning lane)                             26-28 feet                                                                24 feet (without median or turning lane)
width
Roadway
ditches     2’ depth                                                                 2’ depth                                                                   2’ depth                                                                2’ depth
(both
sides)
Shoulder    6 feet on each side                                                        6 feet on each side                                                          4 feet on each side                                                       6 feet on each side
width
Sidewalk    One side of street 4 feet wide, 1 foot from ROW                            One side of street 4 feet wide, 1 foot from ROW                              Both sides of street unless there is no residential frontage 4 feet wide  Both sides of street 4 feet wide
Travel lane 12 feet each                                                               12 feet each                                                                 10 feet each                                                              12 feet
width
Pavement    8” BBC base 4” N70 Superpave, (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 811 P7” BBC base, 311 N50 Superpave (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 8” PC 6” BBC base, 4” N50 Superpave (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 8”9” BBC base 4” N70 Superpave (2-1/2” surface, 2-1/2 binder) or 8” PC
structure   concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base                      concrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base or 17” Aggregate Baseconcrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate subbase or 12” Aggregate baconcrete with wire fabric and 4” aggregate sub-base
                                                                                       3” N50 Superpave                                                           4” N50 Superpave (2-1/2” Surface, 2-1/2 Binder)
Vertical
alignment   6%/0.5%                                                                    8%/0.5                                                                       8%/0.5                                                                    6%/0.5%
(max./min.)
Notes to Table:
BBC - Bituminous Base Course
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1665.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/960d77579ca9e85f73512fb109376ca1c7b5c6d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 303)
§ 157.058 BICYCLE CIRCULATION.
   Bicycle circulation shall be accommodated on streets and/or on dedicated
bicycle paths. Where feasible, any existing bicycle routes thought the site
shall be preserved and enhanced. Facilities for bicycle travel may include
eight- to 12-foot off-street bicycle paths and separate, striped, four-foot
bicycle lanes on streets. Bicycle facilities shall comply with standards
contained in the “Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities,” AASHTO,
1999, as amended.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 304)
§ 157.059 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement. Lots shall be laid out in an efficient and uniform
manner to avoid the creation of odd shaped lots and unusable remnants of land.
   (B)   Auto access. Every lot shall be provided direct automobile access from
a publicly dedicated street or alley. No lot shall provide direct automobile
access to arterial or collector streets.
   (C)   Double frontage. Double frontage lots are not permitted, except where
lots back onto a collector or arterial street. Such lots must have an
additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow for an easement
sufficient to contain a landscape berm. No fence, temporary or permanent
structure may be provided in within this easement.
   (D)   Lot dimensions. Lot dimensions, areas and building setback lines shall
conform to the requirements of
Chapter 158. Corner lots shall be of sufficient size to provide for building
setback lines on each street frontage not less than the depth of the required
front yard and corner yard specified in
Chapter 158. Additional width or length shall be provided for lots abutting a
collector or arterial road, County Conservation District property, a flood
hazard area, wetlands, stream or other similar feature.
   (E)   Side lot lines. Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles
to the street and extend in a straight line to the rear lot line or radial to
street line when it intersects a curved street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 305)
§ 157.060 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Street trees. A minimum of one deciduous canopy tree per 40 feet of
street frontage, or fraction thereof, shall be required (always round up to the
nearest whole number when fraction of tree is required). Trees can be clustered
and do not need to be evenly spaced, but maximum separation is still 40 feet.
Trees should be located in parkways between the sidewalk and the curb. Trees
should be located so as not to interfere with underground or overhead
utilities. No tree shall be planted within 20 feet of a sanitary or storm sewer
manhole or catch basin that is located outside the pavement of the street.
   (B)   Plant type. The developer shall select trees and shrubs that are
appropriate for the location. Plant types recommended in
Appendix F of this chapter are presumed to be appropriate; while those listed
as “unacceptable” are presumed inappropriate. In selecting trees that are not
on the list, the developer shall submit information to the city staff for
review and approval and shall consider:
      (1)   The general suitability for the climate and soil conditions of this
area, especially its hardiness and growth rate;
      (2)   The ease of maintenance and resistance to pests and diseases;
      (3)   The tolerance of urban conditions, particularly road salt and air
pollution;
      (4)   The suitability of its branching and foliage, especially the
potential for low branching that might interfere with use of the streets by
motor vehicles; and
      (5)   The availability from local nurseries.
   (C)   Tree preservation. Tree preservation is addressed in §§
153.01 through
153.14.
   (D)   Tree survey. For the purpose of complying with the above requirements,
the developer shall submit with this preliminary plat a tree survey showing
trees that meet the above requirements. Where the number of trees that would
meet the above requirements is so extensive as to impose an unfair burden on
the developer, the developer may indicate the wooded areas by showing the
approximate perimeter of the trunks constituting such an area and listing the
types and sizes of trees within that perimeter. In any event, the developer
will clearly note any trees that meet the standards set out in division (B)
above and that lie within 25 feet of any right-of-way or within any utility
easement.
   (E)   Transformer and other public utility ground-mounted fixtures
screening. All transformers and other public utility fixtures shall be screened
from view at the public right-of-way by a dense evergreen hedge at least as
tall as the tallest piece of equipment.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 306)
§ 157.061 NATURAL AREA PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Natural landscape sensitivity plan. Priority shall be placed on site
design that maintains natural drainage patterns and watercourses. Alterations
to natural drainage patterns shall not create flooding conditions or
degradation in water quality for adjacent or downstream property. A natural
landscape sensitivity plan (NLS) must be prepared to ensure protection of the
natural contours and vegetation on a development site.
      (1)   The NLS plan shall address the following requirements:
         (a)   Site development shall be fitted to the topography and soil so
as to create the least potential for vegetation loss and site disturbance;
         (b)   Vegetation removal shall be limited to that amount necessary for
the development of the site;
         (c)   Vegetation native to the site or plant community shall be
restored in areas affected by construction activities. Temporary vegetation,
sufficient to stabilize the soil, may be required on all disturbed areas as
needed to prevent soil erosion; and
         (d)   Site design shall minimize the disturbance and loss of
vegetation.
      (2)   The NLS plan shall be drawn to scale and shall indicate the nature
and extent of the work and restoration efforts proposed. The NLS plan shall
include the following information:
         (a)   Existing contours of the site, as well as finished contours to
be achieved by grading. Contours shall be sufficiently detailed to define the
topography over the entire site;
         (b)   Delineation of areas to be cleared during development
activities;
         (c)   Restoration of vegetation proposed for all surfaces to be
exposed during development activities, including any dredged, filled or graded
areas; and
         (d)   The location and extent of natural area buffers and method of
implementation.
      (3)   All approved measures to mitigate the loss or impact to the natural
landscape shall become conditions for approval of the project. In addition, all
approved NLS measures shall be carried out prior to final issuance of the
building permit or concurrently with the installations of site improvements in
the case of a final plat of subdivision.
      (4)   The NLS must be approved by city retained consultants or staff.
   (B)   Natural area management. Natural areas and buffers in a conservation
subdivision may be owned by the city, an association, a land trust or other
conservation organization recognized by the city, or may remain in private
ownership.
      (1)   Public ownership and management. The city may, but shall not be
required to, accept dedication in the form of fee simple ownership of the
designated natural area or buffer.
      (2)   Homeowners association.
         (a)   Restricted natural areas may be held in common ownership by a
homeowner’s association, community association or other similar legal entity,
or the individual members of a condominium association as tenants-in-common.
The City Attorney shall determine that the association’s bylaws or code of
regulations specify the following requirements:
            1.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for all
purchasers of lots in the development; and
            2.   The association shall be responsible for maintenance, control
and insurance of the common areas, including the dedicated natural areas. The
association shall notify the city of its officers, providing contact
information.
         (b)   In the event the homeowners association fails to maintain the
common areas or other areas or items the association is required to maintain,
the city shall have the right, but not the obligation to take over management
of common areas. Any and all costs incurred by the city shall be reimbursed
upon written request to the association. In the event the city exercises its
rights pursuant to this provision it shall be granted the rights and remedies
described in the declaration of covenants or homeowners association bylaws in a
form approved by the city.
      (3)   Creation of conservation easements. A property owner can create a
conservation easement restricting the use of the property to protect or
preserve its natural features. If the property owner chooses to grant a
conservation easement to a public entity, that entity can accept this grant,
provided that:
         (a)   The provisions of the conservation easement are acceptable to
the city; and
         (b)   Continuing maintenance and management responsibilities are
established.
   (C)   Landscape management and maintenance plan (LMMP). A landscape
management and maintenance plan must be prepared to ensure that all common
landscape areas that are the responsibility of a homeowner’s association are
kept in a healthy growing condition in accordance with commonly accepted
landscape nursery performance standards for maintenance. The LMMP shall address
the following requirements.
      (1)   Consultant. A qualified consultant will periodically visit the
property to monitor the health of the plants, naturalized open space areas and
preserved or re-created wetland areas.
      (2)    Debris management. All trash, brush, grass clippings, debris and
the like shall be periodically removed from the created detention ponds.
      (3)   Stormwater control structures. All stormwater control structures
and silt basins and the like shall be cleaned out and/or repaired every two
weeks to prevent clogging. This will be especially important in early spring
and late fall during construction activities. Dammed water can drown certain
wetland plants if not rectified quickly.
      (4)   Sediment and soil erosion control management. All sediment and soil
erosion control devices, structures and features and the like are to be
installed as required by the sediment and soil erosion control plan and
function properly at all times. Any deficiencies shall be corrected
immediately. Twice monthly erosion control visits should be completed until the
plantings have stabilized the site.
         (a)   The area of disturbance on-site at any one time shall be limited
to 20 acres. An additional 20 acres (not to exceed a maximum of 40 acres at any
one time) may be disturbed if necessary for earth balance.
         (b)   The City Engineer may approve a larger area for disturbance if:
            1.   The developer adequately demonstrates the need for a larger
area;
            2.   The City Engineer finds that sufficient temporary and
permanent erosion and sediment control measures can be maintained; and
            3.   The area of disturbance is the smallest practical area at any
one time and still minimizes the risk of sediment being introduced into site
runoff and carried off-site.
         (c)   All disturbed areas shall be stabilized within 14 days of final
grading or when left idle for more than seven days, excluding maintained haul
roads, sediment basins, site runoff storage facilities, utility corridors less
than 20 feet in width, and any permanently stabilized areas.
      (5)   Prescribed burn management. The detention ponds and preserved
wetlands shall undergo periodic burns after the second growing season or as
fuel allows. These burns help to reduce undesirable weedy species and encourage
native species. These burns should only be performed by a qualified burn
contractor.
      (6)   Invasive non-native weeds. Purple loosestrife, reed canary grass,
common reed, willow, buckthorn, thistle and other invasive weeds shall be
controlled by the following: mechanically, through the use of mowing no sooner
than the third week of July; fire (as fuels allow); application of herbicide;
or a combination of these methods as deemed appropriate by the consultant.
      (7)   Protection of detention ponds and open space areas. Open space
areas and constructed detention ponds shall have construction fencing placed
around the limits of a no construction zone. No equipment or materials shall be
stored within the no construction zone, and no equipment shall be driven within
it.
      (8)   Report. An annual report based on the above maintenance and
management activities shall be submitted to the city by the spring of each year
following the completion of the management tasks. The report will include a
review of compliance with performance standards and the proposed actions to
reduce any shortfalls.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 307) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.062 SIGNS.
   The developer shall furnish and erect all necessary signs, including street
signs, as designated by the City Engineer, Police Department or city staff. All
signs shall be of a type approved by the City Engineer, Police Department or
city staff. The developer will submit a signage plan to be included with the
final engineering plans which fully address the above. All signs shall comply
with the standards set forth in
Chapter 151.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 308)
§ 157.063 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements. The following easements shall be provided where appropriate
and identified on the plat of subdivision.
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements shall be provided for utility
services, including, but not limited to, gas, telephone, cable and electric.
      (2)   Municipal easements. Easements shall be provided for municipal or
public services, including water, sewer and storm sewer. A municipal utility
easement for water or sewer shall not be placed in a side or rear yard.
      (3)   Drainage easements. When a subdivision is traversed by a waterway,
intermittent stream or drainageway, there shall be provided a stormwater
easement or drainage easement conforming substantially with the lines of same.
Such easement shall be of sufficient size to protect said waterway,
intermittent stream or drainage way and to permit ingress and egress for
maintenance.
      (4)   Street construction and maintenance easements. Street construction
and maintenance easements shall be provided adjacent to dedicated streets
whenever additional width is necessary to meet the maximum earth slope
requirements contained in the Schedule of Minimum Design Requirements for
Subdivision Streets in the city (see §
157.102). Street, construction and maintenance easements shall be separate and
distinct from utility easements and the two shall not be combined. See §§
157.135 through
157.140 for certification required on final plat to permit crossing of other
easements.
      (5)   Greenway, bikeway and pedestrian path easement. Where a development
includes or proposes to include a greenway, bikeway and/or pedestrian path
easement, the developer shall, if the property is not dedicated to the city, or
a public or quasi-public entity which accepts the same, provide an easement to
allow the city and/or county to maintain the space in the event that it is not
properly maintained and to charge the benefited properties.
      (6)   Landscape berm easement. Where a development is required to provide
reverse frontage lots with a landscape berm separating the residential lots
from the street, the developer shall provide for the maintenance of the
material.
   (B)   Limitations on the use of easements.
      (1)   No construction of structures, dams, embankments or channels
(except as indicated on the engineering drawings), and no planting of trees,
shrubbery or other flow-impeding vegetation, which hinders the flow of water or
otherwise inhibits the intended purpose, shall be allowed within any drainage
or stormwater retention or detention easements.
      (2)   Municipal utility easements must be separate and distinct from
public utility easements and the two shall not be combined.
      (3)   A septic limitation line shall be shown in conjunction with each
drainage and stormwater retention or detention easement demarcation line.
   (C)   Maintenance of easements.
      (1)   Drainage and stormwater retention and detention easements shall be
adequately maintained so as to provide for removal of accumulation of
vegetation, silt, debris or other material which may interfere with the flow
characteristics of drainage ways or the essential features of retention or
detention facilities. The removal shall be undertaken at least annually.
      (2)   Pedestrian way easements shall be maintained to permit their
continued use.
      (3)   Provisions shall be made through a homeowners association, deed
restrictions, covenants or other acceptable means to maintain all easements in
accordance with §
157.061(C).
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 309) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.064 ELECTRIC AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Coordination. The developer shall keep all utility, i.e., gas,
electric, cable and communication entities, appraised of the progress on the
subdivision and coordinate construction activities with theirs. If underground
utility installation cannot be completed prior to final grading and seeding, it
shall be the responsibility of the developer to restore the ditches and turf
following installation of underground utilities. Utility companies shall not
dig trenches across any streets after placement of the aggregate base course
unless complete restoration, meeting the approval of the City Engineer, is
provided.
   (B)   Lines underground.
      (1)   New development. All electric, telephone, television and other
communication lines, both main and service connections servicing new
developments, shall be provided by underground wiring within easements or
dedicated public rights-of-way and installed in accordance with the prevailing
standards and practices of the utility or other companies providing such
services. Conduits and/or cables shall be placed within the easements or
dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict with other
underground services. All transformer and above-ground utility boxes shall be
located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
      (2)   Existing streets and service. Lots that abut existing easements or
public rights-of-way, where overhead electric or telephone distribution supply
lines and service, connections have previously been installed, may be supplied
with electric and telephone service from those overhead lines, but the service
connections from the utilities’ overhead lines shall be installed underground.
In the case of existing overhead utilities, should a street widening, or an
extension of service, or other such condition occur as a result of the
subdivision and necessitate the replacement or relocation of such utilities,
such replacement or relocation shall be underground.
   (C)   Pole placement. Whenever overhead lines are permitted, consistent with
or as an exception to the above standards, the placement and alignment of poles
shall be designed to lessen the visual impact of overhead lines. Alignments and
pole locations shall be carefully routed to avoid locations along horizons;
clearing swaths through wooded areas shall be avoided by selective cutting and
a staggered alignment; trees shall be planted in open areas and at key
locations to minimize the view of the poles and the alignments; and alignments
shall follow rear lot lines and other alignments.
   (D)   Street lighting. Every development shall provide street lighting in
accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Every street intersection shall have at least one streetlight
placed in such a manner as to adequately light the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Streetlights shall be installed and operable before occupancy
will be granted on any improved lots.
         (b)   All street lighting shall be installed and maintained by ComEd
using standard ComEd fixtures and poles. Where there is a choice of poles,
fixtures and size of luminaire, the city shall make the final selection. Poles
made of wood are not acceptable to the city. The city will consider the use of
alternative decorative custom light fixtures only when the homeowners
association assumes responsibility for maintenance. Final subdivision plats, as
approved by the City Council, shall be sent to ComEd for approval of street
lighting placement. The final street lighting plan shall also be reviewed by
the city to determine that adequate light levels are maintained and do not
create excessive glare or light in residential areas.
      (3)   All costs associated with the installation of the ComEd street
lighting equipment shall be paid by the developer.
      (4)   All streetlights shall be on at dusk and off at dawn. Streetlights
shall be controlled by a photo cell mounted on top of the luminaire.
      (5)   The height and shielding of lighting standards shall provide proper
lighting without hazard to drivers or nuisance to residents.
      (6)   Streetlight standards shall be installed at least ten feet from the
edge of pavement for a rural section, or 30 inches behind, the back of curb for
an urban section.
      (7)   Lighting for safety shall be provided along walkways, between
buildings and in parking areas that have or could be expected to have
significant night traffic.
      (8)   Spacing of streetlights shall comply with the standards set forth
in §§
157.055(G) and 157.056(F).
      (9)   Compliance with IDOT lighting standards for local roads is
required.
   (E)   Permits for utility services. Permits must be obtained from the
governing body for the installation of communication, electric power, gas and
other utility services, before any installation is started, and the city is to
be informed in writing of above. Installation of all utilities must fully
comply with all utility ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 310) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.065 IMPACT ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Flood hazard area. If any portion of a lot falls within the boundaries
of a flood hazard area, as identified by Chapter 158 or other duly adopted maps
or ordinances, or if a portion of a lot is traversed by an intermittent stream
and/or waterway, that portion of such lot shall be protected by a drainage
easement and shall be excluded from the buildable area of that lot. When this
situation results in the separation of the buildable area of a lot from the
street to which it has access, provisions shall be made for the installation of
an adequate drainage structure, and its construction shall be provided for as a
condition of plat approval.
   (B)   Critical soils. If any portion of a lot falls within the boundaries of
critical soils as identified by the Soil Standards Manual for Waste Disposal
Systems, that portion of such lot shall be designated as restricted for use of
septic systems unless evidence can be produced to demonstrate that the soils
can be managed by appropriate common engineering practices which would render
the soils suitable. Soils removal and replacement, and the use of curtain
drains, are not generally considered a suitable management practice. See the
county’s groundwater resources management plan for additional standards.
   (C)   Traffic impacts. No subdivision plat shall be approved if its
development will increase traffic to the extent that a lower level of service
results, unless the proposal includes measures to mitigate such increased
traffic. The maximum amount of traffic that will be permitted in the city shall
be the Institute of Traffic Engineers’ Level of Service C.
   (D)   Snow plowing. The developer is responsible for plowing any street that
the city has not accepted into the street system. The developer is responsible
for any damage that may occur as a result of such plowing.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 311)
§ 157.066 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   The following specifications shall govern subdivision street construction in
the city and its one and one-half mile planning jurisdiction. Wherever
reference is made to “Standard Specifications,” it shall mean the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted July 1, 1994, by the
State Department of Transportation (IDOT), as amended. Whenever reference is
made to the “IDOT Local Roads Manual,” it shall mean Bureau of Local Roads and
Streets Administrative Manual (latest edition). Wherever reference is made to
“design requirements,” it shall mean the Schedule of Minimum Design
Requirements for Subdivision Streets in the city (as provided in this section).
   (A)   Excavation and grading. Streets within the subdivision shall be
excavated true to line and grade in accordance with applicable articles of §
202 of the Standard Specifications. Whenever unsuitable material is encountered
in the sub-grade, it shall be removed and replaced with granular sub-base
material furnished and installed in accordance with the applicable articles of
§ 311 of the Standard Specifications. The City Engineer or city staff shall
inspect and approve the sub-grade prior to construction of the base course.
   (B)   Base courses. Base courses shall be constructed of a type, width and
compacted thickness shown on the design requirements and in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Bituminous base course shall be constructed in accordance with §
355 of the Standard Specifications and the supplemental specifications
referencing superpave mix design.
      (2)   Aggregate base course Type B shall be constructed in accordance
with § 351 of the Standard Specifications, and the material used shall meet the
requirements of § 1004.04 of the Standard Specifications gradation CA-6 crushed
gravel or stone.
   (C)   Bituminous surface courses. Bituminous surfaces shall be constructed
of a type, width and compacted thickness shown on the design requirements and
in accordance with the following: bituminous concrete binder course, superpave
and bituminous concrete surface course shall be constructed in accordance with
§ 406 of the Standard Specifications and the supplemental specifications
referencing superpave mix design.
   (D)   Bituminous surface. Bituminous surface on an aggregate base shall not
be constructed until the aggregate base has been completed and in place on the
street for one winter season. This requirement may be waived by the City
Engineer or city staff, and the bituminous binder course may be constructed
under the following conditions:
      (1)   The aggregate base is sufficiently compacted as demonstrated by
methods required by the City Engineer or city staff; and
      (2)   (a)   The developer agrees to repair, to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer, any areas of the binder course which show evidence of distress
or failure prior to construction of the surface course. In any case,
immediately prior to placing the binder and surface courses, the aggregate base
course shall be prepared in accordance with § 351 of the Standard
Specifications;
         (b)   The City Engineer or city staff shall inspect and approve the
base course prior to placement of the binder and surface courses. This may be
accomplished by methods required by the City Engineer. Where “conservation
sections” are utilized, the bituminous surface course shall be edged with
tapered aggregate shoulders, four feet in width and constructed in accordance
with applicable articles of § 481 of the Standard Specifications; and
         (c)   The binder course or surface shall be applied only when the
minimum temperature is 40°F and rising, and when frost is not present in the
ground.
   (E)   Concrete pavement. Concrete pavement shall be constructed to a width
and thickness shown on the design requirements and in accordance with
applicable articles of § 420 of the Standard Specifications.
   (F)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks one foot in from rights-of-way shall be
installed with a minimum aggregate base of four inches of Type B 100% crushed,
with four inches of Portland cement concrete, with a minimum six bag mix.
Sidewalk ramps shall be constructed of the type and at the location approved by
the City Engineer and as required by the state. The developer may substitute,
with the approval of the City Council, an off-site pedestrian trail as an
alternative to a sidewalk on local streets. See §
157.057(P) and the tables and figures in said section for sidewalk width
requirements.
   (G)   Curb and gutter. Except where a proposed street would continue an
existing street constructed with a conservation section, and the city
determines that the continuation of that section is appropriate, all streets
shall be improved with combination concrete curb and gutter as shown on the
design requirements, and it shall be constructed in accordance with § 606 of
the Standard Specifications.
   (H)   Drainage. Streets with a “rural section” will generally have an “open”
drainage system, consisting of roadside ditches and culverts, while streets
with a “urban section” will generally have a “closed” drainage system
consisting of storm sewer and curb inlets. All ditches, culverts and storm
sewers shall be sized and inlet spacing determined on the basis of calculations
required in §§
157.135 through
157.140 or as hereinafter specified. All drainage structures shall be in place
before surfacing material is installed.
      (1)   Open drainage system. Cross-road culverts shall have a minimum
diameter of 18 inches or equivalent, with metal end sections, and shall run
from ditch line to ditch line. Driveway culverts shall have a minimum diameter
of 15 inches or equivalent with metal end sections and be of such length so as
to adequately span the driveway. Culverts shall meet the requirements of
Appendix G of this chapter and shall be installed in accordance with § 542 of
the Standard Specifications.
      (2)   Closed drainage system. Storm sewers shall have a minimum diameter
of 12 inches and shall meet the requirements of Appendix G of this chapter, and
shall be installed in accordance with § 550 of the Standard Specifications.
Inlets, manholes and catch basins shall be constructed in accordance with § 602
of the Standard Specifications. These drainage structures shall be of such
diameter so as to adequately accommodate the number and configuration of pipes
entering and leaving the structure. Frames and grates shall meet the
requirements of
Appendix G of this chapter.
   (I)   Topsoil and seeding. Prior to acceptance of any street, topsoil shall
be placed on all unpaved areas within the right-of-way, in accordance with
Article 211 of the Standard Specifications. Prior to acceptance of any street,
any disturbed area within the right-of-way shall be smoothed by dragging and
planted with a seed mixture appropriate to the time of year in accordance with
the recommendations of the USDA, Natural Resource Conservation District, for
example, hydroseeding or straw covering.
   (J)   Trench backfill. Whenever the excavation is within two feet of
existing, proposed or future street, parking areas, driveways or other paved
areas, the trench shall be backfilled with approved selected granular material,
compacted in place. The top 12 inches of the backfill shall be filled with road
gravel or crushed stone and maintained as a temporary surface for the normal
use of the area. Trench backfill shall consist of selected granular backfill
Type CA-6 (100% crushed) and shall be compacted in place to 95% of maximum
density at optimum moisture as, determined by the Standard Proctor Test.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 312) Penalty, see §
157.999
**** WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ****
§ 157.080 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Any new development and any lot created pursuant to this chapter
shall be served with a properly approved and functioning water supply system.
Any new development or lot created pursuant to this chapter and lying within
the city shall be connected to the city water system at the development’s
expense. Depending on the number of residential dwelling units proposed,
residential subdivisions outside the city, but within the city’s one and one-
half mile planning jurisdiction, shall be connected to an existing public water
supply system at the development’s expense if public water service is available
within the following distances.
 
Table 3 - Public Water Supply
Size of Development Distance
1 unit              200 feet
1-4 units           400 feet
5-15 units          800 feet
16-50 units         1,500 feet
More than 50 units  2,500 feet
 
      (2)   Community water sources are prohibited within the one and one-half
mile jurisdiction of the city. Whenever a development is not required to
connect to the city water system, and does not propose to connect to the same,
the developer shall provide service from individual wells in accordance with
the County Department of Health regulations and consistent with the
comprehensive plan. Any development that lies within the one and one-half mile
planning jurisdiction, and which is not connected to the city water system,
shall provide through restrictive covenants that property owners will connect
to the system when city water is available to any portion of the tract as it
was constituted prior to its subdivision, at their expense. Any proposals to
extend or connect to the existing public water system, or to use private wells,
shall be approved by the appropriate governmental entities.
   (B)   Capacity. The water supply system shall be adequate to handle the
necessary flow based on the completed development. The demand rates for all
uses shall be considered in computing the total system demand. Where fire
protection is provided, the system shall be capable of providing the required
fire demand plus the required domestic demand. The average daily residential
and nonresidential demand shall be computed in accordance with 35 I.A.C. Fire
protection shall be furnished at the developer’s expense for any development
connected to the municipal water supply system.
   (C)   System design.
      (1)   General. Except as provided below, system design and placement
shall comply with the construction specifications set forth in the Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, May 1996 (or
latest addition), as amended, by State Society of Professional Engineers
(ISPE), State Municipal League and State AGC, referred to in this subchapter as
the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer (“Standard Specifications”).
All testing and disinfection shall be in accordance with current American Water
Works Association (AWWA) standards or such other standards as may be imposed by
the State Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) or ISPE.
      (2)   Specific. The water distribution system shall be designed to
provide water meeting or exceeding the standards set out in 35 I.A.C. Water
mains shall have a minimum diameter of eight inches. Water mains shall whenever
practical be located between the sidewalk and the curb on the north or west
side of the street with the top of pipe at least six feet from the finished
grade. Water mains shall be extended the entire length of each street and
connected to the existing water distribution or terminated with a line valve
and hydrant. Dead end water mains within a development shall be looped as
directed by the City Engineer. Valves (open left) shall be located no further
apart than 800 feet in residential areas and 600 feet in other areas. Two
valves shall be provided at every “T” intersection of water main. Three valves
shall be provided at every “X” intersection of a water main. Valves shall be
placed so that the closure of a maximum of three valves is necessary to shut
down any point in the system. Air release valves shall be provided at high
points. Valve vaults, of a type specified in the Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer, shall be provided for all valves except fire hydrant auxiliary
valves. The word “water” shall be permanently imprinted on the face of the
valve box and on valve vault covers. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
the size, type and installation of any water main materials shall meet the
specifications set out in
Appendix G of this chapter.
      (3)   Water services. Water services shall use the size and materials set
out in
Appendix G of this chapter. In the event the city approves service using a
larger size than provided therein, the connection shall be made by use of
proper fittings to protect the main. Services greater than two and one-half
inches shall be of ductile iron and shall be tapped under pressure, with a
tapping sleeve and vault. Multiple taps and the use of a branch gooseneck or
“tree connections” are not allowed. Customer water service lines shall be
stubbed from the water main to the nearest private property lot line. Water
services shall have at least five feet five inches, but no more than six feet,
of cover. Every building on a lot served with water shall have its own separate
water service with curb stop/curb box, and taps should be directly into the
respective mains.
      (4)   Tapping requirements. New mains shall be directly tapped into the
water main by way of pressurized tap using all cast iron fittings with the
valve being located inside a manhole encompassing the entire valve, tap
connections and main. The main will be tested by the developer and witnessed by
either the Fire Department Inspector, Building Commissioner or Superintendent
of Water and Wastewater Division.
      (5)   Permits. No water system construction may begin without a valid
public water supply construction permit issued by the IEPA. No water system
improvement may be operated without a valid operating permit issued by the
IEPA.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. Hydrants shall be spaced to provide necessary fire
flow. Hydrants shall be placed not more than 300 feet apart. Hydrants shall be
located at the ends of line. Valves of full line size and a ten-foot section of
pipe with a plug shall be provided after hydrants at the end of all dead end
lines that may be extended in the future. Fire hydrants shall have a six-foot
bury with final landscaping grade being not more than two inches higher or
lower of the bury line on each hydrant and the minimum distance from the
landscaping grade to the center of the steamer nozzle being 18 inches and 24
inches maximum. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the size, type and
installation of any hydrant shall meet the specifications set out in the city’s
water main and sanitary sewer materials list in
Appendix G of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 401) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.081 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   (a)   Any new development and any lot treated pursuant to this
chapter shall be served with a properly approved and functioning wastewater
disposal system. Any new development or lot created pursuant to this chapter
and lying within the city shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer system
at the development’s expense.
         (b)   Depending on the number of residential dwelling units proposed,
residential subdivisions outside the city but within the city’s one and one-
half mile planning jurisdiction shall be connected to the city sanitary sewer
system at the development’s expense if sanitary sewer service is available
within the following distances.
 
Table 4 - Sanitary Sewer Service
Size of Development Distance
1 unit              200 feet
1-4 units           400 feet
5-15 units          800 feet
16-50 units         1,500 feet
More than 50 units  2,500 feet
 
      (2)   In determining whether city sanitary sewer service is available,
the city will consider the costs of upgrading existing mains and constructing
or replacing lift stations, and the extent to which any excessive costs can be
recaptured within a reasonable period of time. Whenever a development is not
required to connect to the city sanitary sewer system, but proposes to comply
with this chapter by service from a community sewer source, the system shall be
designed consistent with this subchapter. Whenever a development is not
required to connect to the city sewer system, and does not propose to connect
to the same or provide service through a community sewer system, the developer
shall provide an individual subsurface disposal system in accordance with the
County Department of Health regulations. All proposals for new public sanitary
sewer systems or extensions to existing public sewer systems, or the use of
community sanitary sewer system or individual subsurface disposal systems,
shall be approved by the appropriate government entities.
   (B)   Sanitary design and placement.
      (1)   General. The sanitary sewer system shall be adequate to handle the
necessary flow based on complete development in accord with the standards set
out in 35 I.A.C. System design and placement shall comply with the
specification set forth in the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer. The
sewers shall be designed in such a way as to ensure a minimum velocity of flow
of two feet per second and a maximum velocity of flow of eight feet per second.
Future extension of sanitary sewers to serve adjacent property must be
addressed. This includes sewer depths and sizes.
      (2)   Sanitary sewer materials. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
sanitary sewer materials shall meet the standards set out in the city’s Water
Main and Sanitary Sewer Materials list. (See Appendix G of this chapter.)
      (3)   Sanitary sewer alignment. The sanitary sewer manhole frames are to
be located in the center of the street or be located as close to the property
lines as practical.
      (4)   Manholes. Manholes shall be provided at all changes in direction or
pipe size and be not more than 400 feet apart. Manholes shall be as specified
in
Appendix G of this chapter. Drop manholes shall be required where the elevation
of the invert pipe is hydraulically required to be a minimum of two feet above
the invert of the manhole. In all other cases, the influent pipe invert shall
be no more than six inches above the manhole invert. The manhole cover shall
have the word “sanitary” permanently imprinted on the face of the cover.
      (5)   Lift stations. Whenever a development proposes to use a lift
station to serve part or all of the lots in the development, the lift station
shall be designed to the satisfaction of the city and offered to it for
dedication. The city may refuse to accept the dedication where it finds that
the development will probably be served without the use of the lift station at
some time during the planning period. Any lift station shall be housed in a
building which is compatible in design with the nearby uses and which is large
enough to accommodate any required equipment. Each lift station shall include a
flow meter approved by the City Engineer. Every lift station shall include an
emergency backup power supply using diesel or natural gas and an extra pump.
Each station shall be connected to the city in such a manner that the city is
electronically notified if the pumps are not functioning.
      (6)   Service lines. Sanitary sewer services shall be a minimum diameter
of six inches and constructed with material as specified in Appendix F of this
chapter. The minimum slope for any diameter service line shall meet or exceed
the State Plumbing Code, being I.A.C. Title 77, Part 890. Services constructed
as part of a new main sewer extension shall be connected to the main sewer
using a wye. Eight-inch diameter services or larger may be connected at a
manhole when approved by the Superintendent of Water and Wastewater Division.
Division clean outs shall be required for all sanitary services located just
outside of the building foundation and at all bends greater than 22.5 degrees
and brought to the final grade of each location.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 402)
§ 157.082 OVERSIZING WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES.
   The city may require the developer to size water and sanitary sewer
facilities to address future development consistent with the comprehensive
plan. Where appropriate, the city may enter into an agreement with the
developer to provide reimbursement from future developments for any required
increase in size.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 403)
§ 157.083 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS.
   Stormwater management requirements are set forth in the County Stormwater
Ordinance, as amended by the city under
Chapter 155.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 501)
**** IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE ****
§ 157.095 DEDICATIONS; LEGISLATIVE INTENT; CASH CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a
final plat of a planned development, each subdivider or developer shall be
required to dedicate land for library, park, recreational, fire/rescue and
school purposes to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
development, or shall be required to make a cash contribution in lieu of actual
land dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the city with the
concurrence of (or at the request of the affected district or districts, which
concurrence shall be obtained in writing. However, the city shall have the
final decision making power in this regard.
   (B)   Dedication of land may be made to the city or to the applicable
district at the discretion of the City Council. The dedications and cash
contributions required hereunder shall be made in accordance with the criteria
and formulae herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 601)
§ 157.096 DEDICATIONS; CRITERIA.
   (A)   Criteria for requiring school site dedications.
      (1)   Requirement and population ratio.
         (a)   The ultimate number of students to be generated by a subdivision
or planned development shall bear directly on the amount of land required to be
dedicated for school sites.
         (b)   The land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining
the ratio of estimated number of children to be served in each school
classification (as described in division (B) below) from the subdivision or
planned development over the maximum recommended number of students to be
served in each such school classification as stated herein, and then applying
such ratio to the appropriate number of acres for a school site of each such
school classification as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres
of land deemed needed to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the
estimated increase in number of students for each such school classification.
      (2)   School classifications and size of school site.
         (a)   These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of
available data studies and literature on the subject, including, but not
limited to, information provided by the State Board of Education and the unique
characteristics of the city, including its general rural character and open
spaces, and the desire of the residents to maintain this character and open
space in future school sites. These requirements for acreage shall be presumed
as the appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any
cash in lieu of land dedication herein unless timely objected to as provided
herein.
         (b)   Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular
development shall be made in accordance with §
157.103 to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Failure to timely object to
these acreage requirements in accordance with §
157.103 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      (3)   Criteria. School classifications and size of school sites within
the city shall be determined in accordance with the following criteria.
 
Table 5 - School Size and Classification
School Districts #154, 165 and 18
                           Maximum Number of Students Appropriate Number of
School Classification by   for Each Such School       Acres of Land for Each
Grades                     Classification             School Site of Such
                                                      Classification
Elementary schools, grades
Kindergarten through 5th   500 students               16 acres
or 6th
High schools, grades 9th   1,500 students             75 acres
through 12th
Junior high schools,
grades 6th through 8th or  600 students               25 acres
7th and 8th
 
      (4)   Location. The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards
adopted by the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in
locating sites. School sites shall be located in accordance with plans
heretofore or hereafter adopted by the school district.
   (B)   Criteria for requiring park and recreational land dedications.
      (1)   Suitability. The land for park and recreational dedications shall
be suitable for the purpose for which it is intended. Land set aside by
developers for parks and recreation purposes shall not be merely what has been
“left over” after residential, commercial and industrial development.
      (2)   Requirement and population ratio.
         (a)   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear
directly on the amount of land required for dedication for park and
recreational purposes. The total requirement shall be ten and one-half acres of
land per 1,000 of ultimate population and may be allocated by the City Council
at its discretion based upon the following criteria.
 
Table 6 - Requirement and Population Ratio Criteria for Park
Type of Recreation Area   Minimum Size      Park Acreage per 1,000 Persons
City-wide community park  15 acres          4 acres
City-wide park for active 10 acres          4 acres
sports
Neighborhood park         3 acres           2 acres
Play lot                  8,000 square feet < 1
 
         (b)   These requirements for acreage are based upon a review of
available data studies and literature on the subject, including, but not
limited to, the National Recreation and Park Association’s Recreation, Park and
Open Space Standards and Guidelines, 1990, and the District’s own internal
examination of service needs and utilization. These requirements shall be
presumed as the appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in
calculating any cash in lieu of land dedication herein unless timely objected
to as provided herein. Objections to these acreage requirements for any
particular development shall be made in accordance with §
157.103 to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Failure to timely object to
these acreage requirements in accordance with §
157.103 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      (3)   Location. The city’s park district comprehensive plan or the park
and recreation plans as adopted by the city’s comprehensive plan shall be used
as a guideline in locating sites. A central location that will serve equally
the entire development or a location that is adjacent to existing park and
recreational land is most desirable. In large developments, these sites can be
located throughout the development according to established standards for park
area distances.
   (C)   Fire and rescue capital facilities contributions and site dedications.
      (1)   Requirement and population ratio.
         (a)   The development of new subdivisions and planned developments
increases the demands upon the existing fire and rescue protection service
provided to the city in a proportionate and ascertainable manner and creates
the need for additional fire and rescue facilities and training sites. Studies
reveal the need to develop additional fire and rescue protection services.
Therefore, as a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision or of a
final plat of a planned development, each developer or subdivider shall be
required to dedicate land for fire and rescue facilities to serve the immediate
and future needs of the residents of the development or shall be required to
make a cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedications.
         (b)   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear
directly on the amount of land required for fire and rescue site dedications.
The city hereby finds that the total requirement shall be as follows.
 
Table 7 - Requirement and Population Ratio Criteria for Fire
City fire protection district 2 acres of land per 10,000 of ultimate
                              population.
City rescue district          2 acres of land per 10,000 of ultimate
                              population.
 
         (c)   This contribution and/or dedication is based upon a review of
available data, studies and literature, including, but not limited to, the
requirements of surrounding communities and the respective fire and rescue
districts’ own internal examination of service utilization and needs. They
shall be presumed to be correct and accurate and shall be used in calculating
cash contributions herein unless timely objected to as provided herein.
Objections to this division (C) shall be made in accordance with §
157.103. Failure to timely object to these requirements in strict accordance
with §
157.103 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
         (d)   The fire and rescue capital facilities contributions shall be
held in trust by the city or other public body designated by the city and shall
be used for the purpose of assisting in providing additional facilities for
municipal purposes. The city may contract with other units of local government
for the provision of fire/rescue services. Funds obtained pursuant to this
section may be transferred to those entities for the purpose of assisting in
the provision of additional facilities which will benefit the city.
      (2)   Location. The location of any new fire or rescue facility and/or
training sites shall be determined by the appropriate district in consultation
with the city.
   (D)   Criteria for requiring library site dedications.
      (1)   Requirement and population ratio.
         (a)   The ultimate density of a proposed development shall bear
directly on the amount of land required for dedication. New development and
increased population create greater demands for adequate and efficient library
services to meet the educational, cultural and recreational needs of the
citizenry. They create the need for additional library facilities. The city
hereby finds that the total requirement shall be two and one-half acres of land
per 10,000 of ultimate population.
         (b)   These requirements are based upon a review of available data,
studies and literature on the subject, including, but not limited to, “Building
for the Future”: an assessment of library service goals, space needs and use
strategies for the City Public Library District prepared by Library Planning
Associates, Inc. and dates May 21, 2002, as well as the library district’s own
internal examination of library utilization and needs. They shall be presumed
as the appropriate acreage requirements and shall be used in calculating any
cash in lieu of land contribution herein unless timely objected to as provided
herein. Objections to these acreage requirements for any particular development
shall be made in accordance with §
157.103. Failure to timely object to these acreage requirements in accordance
with §
157.103 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      (2)   Location. The location of any new library facility shall be
determined by the library in consultation with the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 602)
§ 157.097 CASH CONTRIBUTIONS; CRITERIA.
   (A)   Criteria. When the development is small and the resulting site is too
small to be practical, or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes, school, fire, rescue or library sites, or is in conflict
with the approved standards or plans of the affected district, the city, with
the concurrence of the affected district, shall require the subdivider or
developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication.
      (1)   The cash contribution in lieu of school land dedication, and any
and all interest earned thereon, shall be held by the benefiting school
district or other public body designated by the benefiting school district and
shall be used for the acquisition of land as classified above and its
improvement for school sites to serve the immediate or future needs of children
from that subdivision or development or for the improvement to any existing
school site that already serves such needs, or for the construction of school
buildings or additions thereto in accordance with Pub. Act 93-0330 or for any
purpose defined by agreement with the subdivider or developer in accordance
with this section and § B-3 of
Appendix B of this chapter.
      (2)   The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held by the benefiting park district or other public body
designated by the benefiting park district and shall be used for the
acquisition of park and recreation land as classified above and its
improvement, which will be available to serve the immediate or future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the expansion of other
existing local park and recreation lands that already serve such needs or for
any other lawful park purpose or for any park purpose agreed to by the
subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
      (3)   The cash contribution in lieu of a library site dedication shall be
held by the benefiting library district or other public body as designated by
the city and shall be used for the acquisition of library land as required
herein and its improvement, which will be available to serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
expansion of existing or proposed library facilities that already serve or will
serve such needs or for any other lawful purpose provided by law or agreed to
by the subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
      (4)   The cash contribution in lieu of fire sites shall be held by the
benefiting fire protection district or other public body as designated by the
city and shall be used for the acquisition of land and its improvement for fire
protection facilities or training sites to serve the immediate and future needs
of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the expansion of any
other existing fire station or training site that already serves such needs or
for any other lawful fire purpose provided by law or agreed to by the
subdivider or developer at the time of platting.
      (5)   The cash contribution in lieu of rescue sites shall be held by the
benefiting rescue district or other public body as designated by the city and
shall be used for the acquisition of land and its improvement for rescue
service facilities or training sites to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the expansion of any
other existing rescue facility that already serves such needs or for any other
lawful rescue purpose provided by law or agreed to by the subdivider or
developer at the time of platting.
   (B)   Refunds. If any portion of a cash contribution is not expended for the
purposes stated above within 13 years from the date of final plat approval (if
paid at plat approval) or from the date of building permit (if paid at building
permit), it shall be refunded without interest to the present owner of the
property for which the contribution was made. Refunds shall only be provided
when the payee presents a written request addressed to the affected government
body holding the money within the fourteenth year following such payment. If
such request is not made during the fourteenth year, at the commencement of the
fifteenth year, the affected government body holding the money shall be
authorized to declare such funds abandoned and use the money for any legitimate
purpose.
   (C)   Fair market value.
      (1)   The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be based on the fair
market value of the acres of land in the area that otherwise would have been
dedicated as park and recreation, library, fire, rescue and school sites. In
calculating the fair market value, on a per acre basis, unless determined
otherwise pursuant to §
157.103, the following assumptions about the land shall be made: that it is
zoned in a one-family dwelling residential zoning district; that it is
subdivided with appropriate frontage on a dedicated street or road, stubbed
with municipal sewer and water and has all appropriate utilities available;
that it is improved as set forth in §
157.102; and that it is otherwise property capable of being used for
residential development. Based upon a study of comparable real estate
transactions, it has been determined that the present “fair market value” of
such improved land in and surrounding the city is, as of the effective date of
this chapter as follows:
         (a)   For purposes of locating an elementary or junior high school
within School Districts 165 and 18 and locating a high school within School
District 154, $80,000 per acre;
         (b)   For purposes of locating a park, $60,000 per acre. Land suitable
for park and recreational purposes may have a lesser value depending upon
location, buildability, and whether the site is used as an active or passive
park site. This fair market value reflects these considerations;
         (c)   For purposes of locating a fire or rescue station, $300,000 per
acre. Fire and rescue stations must be strategically located to maximize
response time and have access to major arterial roads. This fair market value
reflects these considerations; and
         (d)   For purposes of locating a new library facility and/or adding on
to the existing library, $300,000 per acre. An addition to the existing library
would entail purchase of property adjoining the existing library. A new library
must be strategically located to accommodate the maximum number of patrons, and
in the tradition of the existing library be accessible and visible.
      (2)   These figures shall be adjusted by the City Council from time to
time, but no less frequently than once every three years, with appropriate
study and documentation. The fair market value, as defined herein, shall be
used in calculating any cash contribution in lieu of land dedication required
herein unless timely objected to as provided in §
157.103. Objections to the fair market value, as defined herein, shall be made
in accordance with §
157.103 to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Failure to timely object to the
fair market value, as defined above in accordance with §
157.103, shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later
time.
   (D)   Criteria for requiring dedication and a contribution. There will be
situations in subdivisions or planned developments when a combination of land
dedication and a cash contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These
occasions will arise when:
      (1)   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a library, park, municipal, fire, rescue or school site (that
portion of the land within the subdivision falling within the library, park,
municipal, fire, rescue or school location shall be dedicated as a site as
stated above, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated); or
      (2)   A major part of the local library, park, municipal, fire, rescue or
school site has already been acquired by the particular district or city and
only a small portion of land is needed from the developer to complete the site
(the remaining portion shall be required as a cash contribution in lieu
thereof).
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 603)
§ 157.098 CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
   The fair market values identified in §
157.103 shall be subject to a “CPI adjustment” which shall be calculated on
January 1, 2005, and on January 1 in each year thereafter. Annually, the fixed
charge shall be adjusted to an amount equal to the fixed charge multiplied by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the “All Items” Consumer Price Index for
Urban Consumers (1982-84 equals 100) for Chicago, Illinois, published by the
United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics (“CPI”) for the
month of December preceding the year of adjustment and the denominator of which
is the CPI for the month of December preceding the month of adjustment. If any
index is calculated from a base different from the base period 1982-84 equals
100, such index shall be converted to a base period of 1982-84 equals 100 by
use of a conversion factor supplied by said Bureau of Labor Statistics. If the
CPI is discontinued or replaced, such other governmental Cost of Living Index
or computation which replaces the CPI shall be used in order to obtain
substantially the same result as would be obtained if the CPI had not been
discontinued or replaced.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 604)
§ 157.099 DENSITY FORMULA.
   The Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit (the “density
formula”) prepared by State School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal
Consultants, Inc., Naperville, Illinois, in 1996 and as updated from time to
time by the consulting firm, contained in Appendix B of this chapter,
constitutes projections of anticipated population density and is generally
indicative of current and short-range projected trends in family size for new
construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required dedication
of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a written
objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer pursuant to §
157.103. The city recognizes that the density formula may be updated from time
to time and will, as a result, adopt these updates periodically by amending
this chapter accordingly.
   (A)   “Bedroom” defined. For the purpose of this section, a BEDROOM shall
include any room which may be used for bedroom purposes, such as a den, study,
loft or extra room located on any floor in a dwelling unit which may be
convertible into a sleeping area and is not clearly identified for some other
specific purpose such as a kitchen (one per unit), dining room (one per unit),
living room (one per unit), bathroom(s) and family room (one per unit).
   (B)   Objections.
      (1)   The density formula, as updated, shall be used in calculating any
cash in lieu of land dedication herein unless objected to as provided in §
157.103. Objections to the density formula shall be made in accordance with §
157.103 to the Planning and Zoning Commission. Failure to object to the density
formula in accordance with §
157.103 shall thereafter waive any right to raise an objection at a later time.
      (2)   In the event a subdivider or developer files a written objection to
the density formula listed above, he or she shall submit his or her own
demographic study showing the estimated additional population to be generated
from the subdivision or planned development, and in that event, final
determination of the density formula shall be made in accordance with §
157.103.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 605)
§ 157.100 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   When the comprehensive plan or the standards of the city call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land, library, school or fire and rescue sites
in a particular subdivision or planned development than the developer is
required to dedicate pursuant to this subchapter, the land needed beyond the
developer’s dedication shall be set aside and reserved by the developer for
subsequent purchase (at a price determined at the time of reservation) by the
city or other public body designated by the city, provided that such
acquisition is made within one year from the date of approval of the final
plat.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 606)
§ 157.101 COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS.
   Where appropriate, a public open space or a school site that is to be
dedicated should, if possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining
developments in order to produce usable recreation areas and/or school sites
without undue hardship on a particular developer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 607)
§ 157.102 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Topography and grading. The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purpose. Wetlands and floodplains may be accepted for city ownership and
maintenance, but shall not serve as a credit toward any required site
dedication. Stormwater detention areas shall not be accepted for city ownership
and maintenance, and the portion of a detention area designed to function
primarily as a component of the stormwater control system shall not serve as a
credit toward any required site dedication. A park site shall be not less than
one acre in area. The City Board reserves the right, however, in its sole
discretion, to accept in whole or in part, certain areas, such as, but not
limited to, tree massings, prairie remnants, high quality or unique wetlands,
or other natural features as all or part of the required park site dedication
in furtherance of open space preservation that may be unique to a given parcel
or development. Wetlands, floodplains, detention areas, retention areas and
areas of steep slope shall not be accepted as school, park, fire, rescue or
library sites and shall not serve as a credit toward the required school, park,
fire, rescue or library site cash contribution in lieu of land dedication. In
addition, the following site conditions and preparation standards shall be met.
      (1)   Slope.
         (a)   Slope should not vary greatly in appearance from existing and
adjacent slopes.
         (b)   Optimum slopes range from 2% minimum to 5% maximum. No less than
2% slope is acceptable under any circumstances.
         (c)   Maximum allowable slope is 10%, except under special conditions
where greater slopes are desirable to enhance the use of the site.
         (d)   On-site drainage patterns shall be designated and constructed
to:
            1.   Ensure flow toward swales; and
            2.   Ensure drainage away from active areas.
      (2)   Grading.
         (a)   Rough grading shall be completed at time of rough grading of
adjacent contiguous area.
         (b)   Grading shall comply with city approved plans.
         (c)   Sub-grade shall be graded and compacted so it will parallel
finished grade.
         (d)   Sub-grade material shall be loosened and fine graded to a depth
of two to four inches. All stones over four inches in size, sticks, debris,
rubbish and other foreign substances shall be removed.
         (e)   Finished grades shall be uniform in slope between points for
which elevations have been established.
      (3)   Soils.
         (a)   Soils shall not differ from those naturally occurring.
         (b)   Soils shall not offer any restriction to the ultimate use of the
property.
         (c)   Topsoil shall be spread evenly and lightly compacted to a
minimum depth of six inches over the entire site.
         (d)   Topsoil must be good, friable soils with good tillage and shall
be without any admixture of subsoil, clay, gravel, stones, debris, refuse, sand
or other subsurface elements.
         (e)   Topsoil shall not be placed in a muddy or frozen condition.
         (f)   Topsoil shall contain no toxic substances which may be harmful
to plant growth.
         (g)   Topsoil shall be spread no later than the placement of topsoil
on the first lot adjacent to the site.
      (4)   Seeding.
         (a)   All proposed library, park and recreational and school sites
shall be seeded and an acceptable stand of grass or vegetation established
prior to dedication of the area to the city.
         (b)   City-approved ground covers and grasses shall be used for all
park and recreational areas suitable for the nature of the activity planned to
occur thereon.
         (c)   Seeding shall be completed during the fall or spring planting
times, depending upon the recommended seed planting specifications.
         (d)   Seeding shall be on moderately dry soil on a seed bed which will
easily accept and nurture germination of seeds.
         (e)   Seeding shall be watered sufficiently so that the vegetation
becomes reasonably established.
         (f)   The developer shall be responsible for making necessary
reparations to the site caused by erosion or other damage. Reparations shall be
completed prior to acceptance of the site.
   (B)   Improved sites. All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for
full service of electricity, natural gas, telephone and cable television,
water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter,
where applicable), as applicable to the location of the site, and shall
otherwise comply with the requirements of the city ordinances and codes. The
landscaping normally included within the definition of “improved” sites under
said ordinances and codes may be deleted due to the delay time between
dedication of any such school site and the construction of school facilities
thereon, except for groundcover as required in division (A)(4)(d) above. The
site shall have direct access to a fully improved street across at least 20% of
the distance of its perimeter. School, park and library sites should ideally be
accessible by a bicycle/pedestrian trail, and any such access route onto the
property shall be at least 30 feet wide. Such access routes should normally be
dedications and not easements, depending on which entity of government is to be
responsible for said routes. Any vehicular access route leading to or on the
site shall be of sufficient size and good geometry to properly accommodate
vehicles that will access and traverse the site, including, but not limited to,
good principles of traffic circulation, accommodation of one-way and/or two-way
drives for school buses, separation of bus traffic from passenger automobile
traffic, bus drop-off areas separate from publicly-dedicated streets, guest and
employee parking areas, and the like Such off-street access routes, drives,
drop-offs and parking areas will not be dedicated rights-of-way and shall be
the responsibility of the owner of the site to maintain.
   (C)   Environmental risk audit.
      (1)   Prior to the conveyance of any land to the city, library district,
park district, fire protection district or school district, the intended
grantee shall be furnished with an environmental risk audit prepared by an
environmental professional meeting the minimum requirements of 415 ILCS 5/22.2
(j)(6)(E)(iii), certified to and acceptable to the grantee, assuring the
grantee that there are no hazardous substance(s) (as defined hereinafter) on,
under, to or from the land. Said environmental audit shall be what is commonly
referred to as a Phase I Environmental Audit, which shall meet the minimum
requirements for a pre-acquisition audit as set for in 415 ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)
(iii)(v).
      (2)   In the event the Phase I Environmental Audit does not conclude
there is no presence or likely presence of a release or substantial threat of a
release of hazardous substance(s) or pesticide on, under, to or from the land,
the grantee shall furnish a Phase II Environmental Audit as set forth in 415
ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)(vi), including a soil toxicity analysis and
recommendation from said environmental professional, meeting the minimum
requirements of 415 ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii), which concludes that there is no
presence or likely presence of a release or substantial threat of a release of
hazardous substance(s) on, under, to or from the land, and certifying that, in
the judgment of said environmental professional, there is no reasonable
probability that the land contains any hazardous substance(s) in violation of
any federal or state environmental standards.
      (3)   In the event said Phase II Environmental Audit and/or soil toxicity
analysis discloses the presence or likely presence of a release or a
substantial threat of a release of any hazardous substance(s) at, on, under, to
or from the land to the conveyed, the grantor shall first cause all such
hazardous substance(s) to be removed at its sole cost and expense in accordance
with all federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations and
furnish the intended grantee with a “no further remediation letter” from the
governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the clean up prior to conveyance
of any of the land to the intended grantee.
      (4)   Prior to the conveyance of the land, the subdivider or developer,
as the case may be, and the owner of the land to be conveyed, shall execute and
deliver to the intended grantee an environmental indemnification agreement,
which form has been approved by the City Attorney, agreeing to defend,
indemnify and hold the city, its corporate authorities, officers, officials,
employees, agents, successors and assigns, and the appropriate benefiting
governments, as the case may be, and its respective officers, officials,
employees, agents, successors and assigns, harmless from and against any and
all liability, claims, damages, causes of action and expenses arising out of
the presence of any hazardous substance(s) in, under or upon said land to be
conveyed prior to the date of conveyance.
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (C), HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE(S)
includes, without limitation:
         (a)   Substances included in the definitions of hazardous substances,
extremely hazardous substances, hazardous materials, toxic substances, toxic
chemicals, toxic wastes, hazardous chemicals, hazardous wastes, solid waste and
pesticides in CERLA, SARA, RCRA, HSWA, TSCA, OSHA, FWPCE, State Pesticides Act
(415 ILCS 60/1 et seq.), State Responsible Property Transfer Act (765 ILCS 90/
1 et seq.) and the State Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (430 ILCS 30/
1 et seq.), 49 U.S.C. §§ 1801 et seq., as amended, and as they may be amended
in the future, and in the regulations promulgated pursuant to said laws;
         (b)   Substances defined in § 603 of the State Environmental
Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and in the regulations promulgated
pursuant to said act or other state laws pertaining thereto;
         (c)   Substances listed in the U.S. Department of Transportation Table
(49 C.F.R. § 172.101 and amendments thereto) or by the Environmental Protection
Agency (or any successor agency) as hazardous substances (40 C.F.R. part 302
and amendments thereto);
         (d)   Such other substances, materials and wastes which are to become
regulated under applicable local, state or federal law, or which are classified
as hazardous or toxic under federal, state or local laws, ordinances or
regulations;
         (e)   Any material waste or substance which is:
            1.   Asbestos;
            2.   Polychlorinated biphenols;
            3.   Designated as a hazardous substance pursuant to § 311 of the
Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (33 U.S.C. § 1321) or listed
pursuant to § 307 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317);
            4.    Explosives; or
            5.   Radioactive materials.
         (f)   For purposes of this subchapter, hazardous substances shall
include petroleum or its byproducts as regulated under RCRA and any applicable
state law or regulations.
   (D)   Suitability of soils at site.
      (1)   The subdivider or developer, at its own cost or expense, shall
provide to the city, library district, park district, fire protection district,
rescue district or school district soil boring data, soil compaction test
results and such other engineering studies, data and information pertaining to
the proposed school, library, fire, rescue or park and recreational site, which
the city, library district, park district, fire protection district, rescue
district or school district may request to enable it to determine the
suitability of the proposed land dedication for library, fire/rescue or school
sites or park and recreation purposes.
      (2)   The city, library district, park district, fire protection
district, rescue district or school district shall have the right to reject any
site which the city, library district, park district, fire protection district,
rescue district or school district determines, in accordance with sound
engineering practices, is not suitable for library site, fire, rescue site,
park and recreational site or school site purposes.
   (E)   Title insurance, survey, assessment plats.
      (1)   Title insurance, survey, assessment plats. Each deed or other
instrument conveying land to the city, library district, park district, fire
protection district, rescue district or school district shall be accompanied
by:
         (a)   A written commitment issued by a title insurer licensed to do
business in the state to insure the grantee’s title to such real estate in an
amount equal to the value computed pursuant to §
157.097, with extended coverage over the general exceptions to title and
subject only to:
            1.   Real estate taxes not yet due and payable;
            2.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions which do not prohibit
the use of the subject property for its intended library, school, fire and
rescue or park and recreational use;
            3.   Utility easements located within 20 feet of the boundary lines
of the subject real estate (except where approved on the final engineering
plans approved by the City Engineer);
            4.   Drainage ditches, feeders and laterals;
            5.   Underground pipe or other conduit; and
            6.   Acts done or suffered by or judgments against the grantees.
         (b)   A current ALTA boundary line survey, certified to the grantee by
a licensed state land surveyor to be in compliance with the American Land
Survey Standards, showing no encroachments; and
         (c)   Except in instances where the real estate to be conveyed is a
lot in a recorded subdivision, an assessment plat and tax division petition in
a form acceptable to the appropriate authorities so the land to be conveyed can
be assigned its own permanent real estate index number (PIN) for exemption
purposes.
      (2)   Monuments. In addition, monuments must be established and the land
staked immediately prior to dedication of the property. The subdivider or
developer shall pay for the cost of the owner’s title insurance in said amount,
the ALTA survey, the assessment plat and any and all costs in connection with
the tax division.
   (F)   Real estate tax escrow. The developer shall pay the general real
estate taxes on the land not yet due and payable as of the date of transfer,
and shall deposit a sum of money in escrow with the intended grantee’s attorney
or a title company licensed to do business in the state, which is prorated as
of the date of transfer on the basis of 110% of the tax assessor’s latest
assessed valuation, the latest known equalization factors and the latest known
tax rate on the land. In the event the previous tax information or the previous
tax bill includes other property, then the amount to be deposited in escrow
shall be adjusted ratably based on the net acreage of the land compared to the
net acreage of the other parcels covered by said tax bills. After the land has
been divided for real estate tax purposes and has been conveyed to the intended
grantee, the grantee shall proceed with due diligence to apply for a real
estate tax exemption on the land.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 608)
§ 157.103 OBJECTIONS.
   All objections relating to acreage requirements, presumptions as to fair
market value, the density formula or any other application of this subchapter
to a particular subdivision or planned development, shall first be referred to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for a hearing. An objection must be made, if
at all, prior to the approval of the final plat of subdivision by the city. A
failure to object by such time shall constitute a waiver of the right to object
to the provisions of this subchapter. All developers submitting a plat of
subdivision or resubdivision or a plat of a planned unit development to the
city shall be given a copy of this subchapter, including the procedures for
objecting to such an assessment as prescribed by this section. Upon receipt,
the developer must sign an accompanying document acknowledging that the
developer has received notice of the existence of such a procedure for
objections. This document entitled acknowledgment of notification of rights is
attached as Appendix D of this chapter and is incorporated herein by reference.
The procedure for a hearing before the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
as follows.
   (A)   Duties of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity and shall have the following
duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall advise and assist the city in resolving
objections regarding the density formula, the size of the library, park, fire,
rescue and school sites in §
157.096, respectively, the fair market value of the land used to calculate the
cash contribution in §
157.097, or any other application of this subchapter to a particular
subdivision or planned development.
      (2)   The city shall adopt procedural rules to be used by the Planning
and Zoning Commission in carrying out the duties imposed by this section.
   (B)   Information and services to be used. the city shall make available to
the Planning and Zoning Commission all professional reports relating to the
density formula, the size of the library, fire, rescue, park and school sites
and the fair market value of land used in calculating these cash contributions.
The Planning and Zoning Commission may also retain the services of
professionals (attorneys, appraisers, statisticians and the like) to assist in
its review of issues raised by any objection.
   (C)   Procedure for resolving an objection.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an objection, the City Administrator shall place
the same on the next regular meeting agenda of the City Council. Thereafter,
the City Council shall refer the objection to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and by resolution establish a hearing date.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall provide public notice of
the hearing date to consider the objection and shall notify the affected
library, fire protection, rescue, school and park districts by certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the filing of the objection and of any hearing
regarding same.
      (3)   The objector shall publish notice of the hearing date once each
week for three consecutive weeks, at least 30 days before but no more than 60
days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the corporate limits of the city. The
notice of public hearing shall not appear in the part of the paper where legal
notices or classified ads appear. The notice shall not be smaller than one-
quarter page of a standard size or tabloid-size newspaper. The objector shall
send a copy of said notice to any person who has requested said notice by
certified mail (stamped at a U.S. Postal Service facility showing the date of
mailing) at least 30 days prior to the hearing date.
      (4)   The notice shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The headline, which shall read: “Notice of Public Hearing on
Objection to Application of Ordinance Requiring the Dedication of School Sites,
Park Lands, Fire and Rescue Lands and Library Lands or Payment of Cash
Contributions in Lieu Thereof and Fire and Rescue Capital Facilities
Contributions”;
         (b)   The date, time and location of the public hearing;
         (c)   A statement that the purpose of the hearing is to consider the
objection to a component of the application of the ordinance requiring the
dedication of school sites, park lands, fire and rescue lands and library lands
or payment of cash contributions in lieu thereof and fire and rescue capital
facilities contributions;
         (d)   A general description of the parcel(s), service area. or areas
within the city that are the subject of the hearing;
         (e)   A statement that the city shall make available to the public,
upon request, an easily understandable and detailed map of the parcel(s),
service area or areas to which the ordinance applies, and any other available
information about the objection; and
         (f)   A statement that any member of the public affected by the
ordinance or the parcel(s) or service area shall have the right to appear at
the public hearing and present testimony and/or evidence in support of or
against the objection.
      (5)   A public hearing shall be held for the consideration of the
objection. In addition to the city, any affected library district, school
district, park district, fire district and rescue district shall be allowed to
participate in such hearing as a party thereto to present evidence, cross-
examine witnesses and make arguments to the Planning and Zoning Commission
regarding the issues raised in the objection. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall make a recommendation to adopt, reject in whole or in part, or
modify the objection presented at the hearing, by written report to the city,
within 60 days after the hearing. The city shall then have at least 60 but not
more than 120 days to approve, disapprove or modify, by ordinance or
resolution, the findings in this chapter as it pertains to the development in
question.
   (C)   Costs and fees. The objector shall bear all costs of the hearing
before the Planning and Zoning Commission, including, but not limited to,
attendance fees paid the Planning and Zoning Commission members, publication
costs, professional consultants and any other expenses of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 609)
§ 157.104 CONDITION TO ANNEXATION.
   (A)   The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required
by this subchapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of
any land to the city, and provisions therefor shall, at a minimum, be
incorporated in any annexation or pre-annexation agreement governing such land.
   (B)   However, the city reserves the right to negotiate dedications of land
or cash contributions in lieu of land or a combination thereof different than
those set forth herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 610)
§ 157.105 INDEMNIFICATION.
   As a condition to the city distributing land dedications and/or cash
contributions in lieu thereof, the appropriate district shall execute an
indemnification agreement in the form set forth in Appendix A of this Article
6. This agreement shall be executed on or before June 1 of each year. Following
execution of this agreement by the appropriate district, this indemnification
agreement shall be furnished to the city. In the event the appropriate district
fails to execute and/or furnish the executed agreement as required in this
subchapter, the city reserves the right to refuse to impose any land
dedications and/or cash contributions in lieu thereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 611)
§ 157.106 DISTRIBUTION.
   The cash contribution in lieu of land dedication imposed by this chapter
shall be collected and held by the benefiting district to be used for the
purposes set forth in this chapter. As a condition of distribution of these
land dedications and/or cash contributions in lieu of land dedications, the
city shall require that the school district, library district, park and
recreation district, fire protection district or rescue district benefiting
from such land dedications and/or cash contributions conduct a needs assessment
and adopt a comprehensive or long range plan for acquisition of land and
capital facilities needed to accommodate growth.
   (A)   A needs assessment shall contain the following information for each
district (school, library, fire, rescue and park):
      (1)   A description of the nature and location of existing park, library,
fire, rescue and school lands and existing park, school, library, fire, rescue
facilities within each district.
      (2)   An identification of the capacity of each school building, fire
protection facility, rescue facility, library facility or park site within the
particular district and of the number of students then enrolled in each school
building.
      (3)   A projection of the character and location of new development that
is expected to occur within each district or city during the succeeding ten-
year period. The district may obtain the information necessary to make this
projection from sources, such as, but not limited to: municipalities, other
units of government, agencies and consultants.
      (4)   An identification of the amount of lands that will be necessary
within the district in order to accommodate the demands of such projected new
development, and an estimate of the public grounds acquisition costs that will
be incurred or have been incurred by each district in acquiring such lands.
      (5)   A general description of each classification of capital facilities
(including construction, expansion or enhancement of any public facilities and
the land improvement, design, engineering and professional costs related
thereto) that will be necessary within each district in order to provide
adequate capacity for the projected new development, and an estimate of the
capital facilities costs that will be incurred by each district in constructing
such capital facilities.
   (B)   Based upon the needs assessment, the school district, fire protection
district, rescue district, park and recreation district or library district
shall provide the city an acquisition plan for lands and capital facilities.
This acquisition plan shall:
      (1)   Project for a planning period of at least five years, the need for
lands and capital facilities within the district or city;
      (2)   Set forth a schedule for the acquisition of such lands and
facilities to meet the projected need (which schedule may be conditioned upon
the availability of financing);
      (3)   Indicate the size and general location of the needed lands and
facilities;
      (4)   Identify the estimated or incurred costs of acquiring such needed
lands and facilities;
      (5)   Set forth the anticipated funding sources for the acquisition of
such needed lands and facilities;
      (6)   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district’s current financial condition;
      (7)   Determine the feasibility of acquiring the needed land and
facilities based upon the district’s or city’s estimate of the revenues
(including, without limitation, cash in lieu of land dedication required by
this subchapter) pursuant to the plan; and
      (8)   The impact on property taxes in the city assuming the plan is
implemented.
   (C)   If the city deems it necessary, it may require an updated needs
assessment and plan for acquisition of land and capital facilities from the
district annually. The failure to require said assessment update shall not
invalidate the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 612)
§ 157.107 TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All land dedications and cash contributions imposed by this subchapter shall
be due and payable upon final plat approval. For any lot which received final
plat approval prior to the enactment of this chapter and which remains vacant
at the time this chapter is enacted, all dedications and fees imposed by this
subchapter shall be calculated and shall be due and payable at the time a
building permit is issued. At the time of payment (at time of final plat
approval or at time of building permit issuance), the subdivider or developer
shall receive a copy of this subchapter and shall execute an acknowledgment
that a copy of this subchapter has been received. The executed acknowledgment
shall be maintained and filed along with documents evidencing proof of land
dedication or payment of cash contributions in lieu of land dedication by each
subdivider or developer.
   (A)   Payment at time of platting.
      (1)   In calculating the cash contributions to be paid at the time of
platting, the city will assume the maximum density permitted under the zoning
classification approved pursuant to the density formula. For example, if the
subdivision in question is zoned single-family, the city will assume for
purposes of calculating cash contributions payable, pursuant to this chapter,
that all houses will have four or more bedrooms. The benefiting district will
then hold sufficient funds pending issuance of the building permit to enable it
to refund without interest any overpayments resulting from the fact that houses
with less than four bedrooms are constructed. The city will direct the
benefiting district to refund any overpayments resulting from the fact that
houses with less than four bedrooms are constructed.
      (2)   Refunds bearing no interest shall be made at time of issuance of
the building permit. The city will not issue any refunds for any residences
platted but never built.
   (B)   Payment at time of building permit issuance.
      (1)   The city may agree that the payment of the cash contributions may
be made at the time of building permit issuance in consideration of which the
subdivider or developer shall execute an agreement, similar in form and content
to § B-3 of
Appendix B of this chapter. The agreement provides:
         (a)   The cash contributions payable will be adjusted in accordance
with the requirements herein;
         (b)   The cash contributions may be expended for the purposes
described in § B-3 of
Appendix B of this chapter; and
         (c)   To accept the validity of this subchapter and the cash
contributions as calculated.
      (2)   This agreement, or memorandum thereof, shall be recorded along with
the plat of subdivision upon approval by the city.
      (3)   In the event the city agrees to delay the payment of fees and cash
contributions required herein to the time of building permit issuance, the fees
and cash contributions owed shall be those that are in effect at the time the
building permit is issued.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 613)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 157.120 AUTHORITY, COMPLIANCE, APPROVAL AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Authority to review. The City Council grants the City Engineer, the
City Attorney, the Building Commissioner, Chief of Police and other city staff
the power and authority to review and recommend approval or disapproval of
plats for the subdivision of land within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Law compliance. All laws of the state are made a part hereof, the same
as if fully set forth herein, and all officers and employees of the city are
directed to compel compliance with such laws of the state.
   (C)   Plat approval. No plat of subdivision shall be approved which does not
comply with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Recording of plat. The City Clerk shall not record any subdivision
plat within the city or its one and one-half mile planning jurisdiction unless
it has been approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Plat violations. Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the City
Clerk that any provisions of the state law governing plats have been violated,
it shall be the City Clerk’s duty to notify the City Attorney, who shall take
appropriate action.
   (F)   Ordinance enforcement. It shall be the duty of the City Engineer, City
Attorney, the Building Commissioner and other city staff to enforce this
chapter; to bring to the attention of the City Council any violations or lack
of compliance with this chapter; and to take appropriate action in the case of
violations.
   (G)   Cost of compliance. Unless otherwise provided, the costs of complying
with any of the standards in this chapter shall be at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 701)
§ 157.121 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Illegal to transfer. No owner or agent of the owner of any land
located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer, sell, lease or offer for sale
or lease any such land before a final plat of such subdivision has been
approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and recorded.
Whoever shall sell or lease or offer for sale or lease any lot or block in any
subdivision before complying with all of the requirements of these shall be
subject to a fine of a minimum of $100 for each lot so disposed or offered.
Each day that sales or leasing or offers to sell or lease, continue in
violation of these regulations shall constitute a separate offense, subject to
the penalty of this division (A). The city shall seek such injunctive relief as
is available under the laws of the state.
   (B)   No metes and bounds. The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land
by the use of metes and bounds descriptions for the purpose of sale, transfer
or lease, with the intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted.
All such described subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 702) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.122 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend variations from these
requirements in specific cases which, in its opinion, do not affect the intent
of this chapter. Such recommendations shall be communicated to the City Council
or the governing county authorities in writing with the reasons therefore. The
City Council or the county authorities may then approve variations from these
requirements in specific cases which, in its opinion, do not affect the intent
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 703)
§ 157.123 SEPARATE PUBLICATION.
   This chapter shall be published in pamphlet form by and under the authority
of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 704)
§ 157.124 ENGINEERING DRAWINGS AND GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Engineering drawings. Prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
approval of the final plat, the developer shall submit Engineering Drawings in
accordance with Appendix A of this chapter demonstrating that any proposed
street, water or sewer line and related facility, stormwater drainage facility
and/or other engineered facility complies with the standards in this chapter
and with good engineering practices.
   (B)   Construction supervision. The developer shall employ a registered
professional engineer who shall be responsible for overseeing the project to
assure that construction of the engineering improvements substantially complies
with the approved plans and specifications. No improvements shall be started
until the final plat has been approved by the city, guarantees posted, the plat
recorded and sufficient copies supplied to the City Hall and all department
heads, and approved watershed development permit issued by the Building
Commissioner and Public Works Director, a pre-construction meeting held with
all applicable parties and erosion control measures installed and inspected by
city staff.
   (C)   Maintenance of improvements. The developer shall be responsible for
maintaining all improvements until they are accepted by the appropriate
governmental entity. Maintenance shall include snow plowing of streets to
ensure adequate access to any lots that have been sold.
   (D)   Estimate of costs. Prior to the Planning and Zoning Commission’s
approval of the final plat, the developer shall prepare an estimate of costs of
any improvements proposed or otherwise related to the final plat, including
off-site improvements. These improvements shall include any streets, water or
sewer facilities, storm drainage facilities, park and recreation facilities,
landscaping and other facilities which will be dedicated or set aside for a
public or quasi-public use. Such an estimate will be provided by a person or
persons qualified to design the facilities and be approved by the City
Engineer. The estimate for street, water, sewer and stormwater facilities shall
be provided by a registered professional engineer.
   (E)   Amount of performance guarantee. The developer shall provide a
performance guarantee in a manner as set out below in an amount sufficient to
address 125% of the estimate of costs. The purpose of the performance guarantee
is to ensure the adequate completion of the improvements in a manner shown on
the final plat and engineering drawings. In the event that some or all of the
improvements will be covered by a performance guarantee to another government
agency, no guarantee will be required for such improvements. Any guarantee
shall be in effect for one year. Additional renewals may be allowed with the
consent of the City Council.
   (F)   Partial release. Upon substantial completion of part or all of the
required improvements, as certified to by the developer’s engineer, the
developer may request in writing a release from those improvements. The City
Engineer and city staff shall inspect the improvements of which such notice has
been given and shall determine whether the improvements were completed in
accordance with approved plans. The City Council shall review the City Engineer
and city staff’s recommendations and shall determine whether to allow the
guarantee to be reduced by the amount in the estimate which is reflected by the
successfully completed improvements.
   (G)   Complete release. Upon completion of all the improvements, the
developer shall submit to the city, City Engineer and city staff “as-built”
plat and engineering drawings certified to by the developer’s engineer. The
“as-built” drawings shall be provided in digital format compatible with the
city’s GIS system. The City Engineer shall review the same and determine
whether the improvements are consistent with the engineering drawings. The City
Council shall review the same and determine whether to accept or, in the case
of facilities not dedicated to the public, approve the facilities. If the City
Council accepts or approves the improvements, the city shall either allow the
guarantee to be reduced to 10% of the guarantee amount, the remaining amount
constituting a maintenance guarantee for a period of two years, or allow a new
maintenance bond for 10% of the guarantee amount, for a period of two years.
   (H)   Types of guarantees. Performance and maintenance guarantees shall be
provided by a variety of means, including, but not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Letter of credit. The developer may provide an irrevocable letter
of credit from a bank or other reputable institution.
      (2)   Escrow account. The developer may deposit cash or their instruments
readily convertible into cash at face value with the municipality.
   (I)   Completion of improvements. All improvements proposed or otherwise
related to the final plat, including off-site improvements, except for
bituminous surface improvements and seeding, shall be completed within one year
after approval of the final plat by the city. The bituminous surface
improvements and seeding, shall be completed within ten months after approval
of the final plat. Time is of the essence. Only under extreme conditions may
the letter of credit be extended by the city in its sole discretion. Any
extension must first be approved by the City Council. It shall be the
obligation of the developer to request such an extension in a timely manner, at
least 30 days prior to the expiration of the guarantee, if any.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 705)
**** PLAT CERTIFICATES AND RELATED FEES AND REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 157.135 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Certificates. Every final plat will include those certificates
necessary to demonstrate compliance with this chapter and as required for
recordation by the county in a form suitable to both the city and the county.
   (B)   State plane coordinates.
      (1)   All plats of subdivision shall be submitted to the city on a 24-
inch by 34-inch Mylar for recording purposes. It shall also be submitted by to
the City Engineer in electronic format on a three and one-half diskette or CD-
ROM which can be read by an IBM compatible computer in DWG (AutoCAD) format.
All coordinates shall be based upon State Plan Coordinates and U.S.G.S. Datum
and shall tie into at least two of the six existing monuments as set by the
City Engineer and referenced on Control Diagram dated June 12, 1997, prepared
by Smith Engineering Consultants, Inc. Specific electronic layers are required,
and the City Engineer should be contacted for more information before surveying
and plat preparation takes place.
      (2)   Every final plat shall include those certificates necessary to
demonstrate compliance with this chapter and as required for recordation by the
county in a form suitable to both the city and the county.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 801)
§ 157.136 REQUIRED CERTIFICATES; PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The
preliminary plat must be approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission. A
certificate indicating such approval, to be signed by the Chairperson, shall be
placed on the plat. The following wording is required.
 
   Plan Commissioner’s Approval
State of Illinois   )
            ) SS
County of McHenry   )
Preliminary plat approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Marengo this                         day of
                            (month), 20        (year).
 
   (B)   City Engineer’s approval. All preliminary plats must be approved by
the City Engineer. A certificate indicating such approval shall be placed on
the preliminary plat. The following wording is required.
   City Engineer’s Approval
State of Illinois   )
            ) SS
County of McHenry   )
My signature, as City Engineer for the City of Marengo, indicates that, to the
best of my knowledge, this preliminary plat meets all the requirements of City
Ordinances.
Signed this        day of                 (month), 20        (year).
                                    
(signature) City Engineer
 
   (C)   Soil classifier’s certification. The signature of the soil classifier
who did the on-site investigation and prepared the soil map shall be affixed to
both sheets of the preliminary plat. The following wording is required.
 
   Soil Classifier’s Certificate
I,                (name) hereby certify that the soil mapping represented on Sheet 2 was
done by me in accordance with the City of Marengo Subdivision Ordinance. I further certify
that my qualifications to do that work comply with the requirements of §
157.102(D) of the City of Marengo Subdivision Ordinance.
                                      
   (date)      (signature)
 
   (D)   City Council’s approval. When a preliminary plat has been approved by
the City Council, the following statement will be placed on the plat, dated and
signed by the Mayor.
 
   Approval of Preliminary Plat
Preliminary plat approved by the City Council of the City of Marengo this day of
             (month), 20           (year).
By                
Mayor
Note: This approved preliminary plat must be submitted with the final plat on or before
the day of       (month), 20      (year). Failure to submit the final plat for one or
more phases of the subdivision within one year from the above date will void this
approval of preliminary plat.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 802)
§ 157.137 REQUIRED CERTIFICATES; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Certificate indicating final plat approval by Planning and Zoning
Commission. The final plat must be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission. A certificate indicating such approval, to be signed by the
Chairperson, shall be placed on the plat. The following wording is required.
 
   Approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission
Approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City of Marengo this                day of
               (month), 20             (year).
                                  
(signature) Chairperson
 
   (B)   Owner’s certificate and notary certificate. A certificate shall be
placed on the final plat indicating the ownership of the land being subdivided.
A notary certificate shall be placed beneath the owner’s certificate in witness
of the owner’s signature. The following general wording of these two
certificates is required.
   Owner’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
This is to certify that the undersigned,  (list names) , is (are) the legal owner(s) of the land described on the
plat hereon drawn and shown hereon as subdivided; that he or she (they) has (have) caused said land to be
surveyed, subdivided, staked and platted as shown hereon, for the purpose of having this plat recorded as
provided by law; and to the best of my (our) knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will not be
changed by the construction of such subdivision or part thereof, or that if such surface water drainage will be
changed; reasonable provision has been made for the collection and diversion of such surface waters into public
areas, or drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters will be planned for in
accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the
adjoining property because of the construction of the subdivision.
In witness whereof I (we) have hereto set my (our) hand(s) and seal(s) this                day of               
(month), 20                (year).
                (Seal)
                (Seal)
   Notary’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the county and state aforesaid, do hereby certify that
                         of                     personally known to me to be the same person or persons whose
name or names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as,              respectively appeared before me this
day in person and acknowledged that they signed and delivered said instrument as their own free and voluntary act
of said company for the uses and purposes therein set forth and said secretary did also then and there
acknowledge that he or she as custodian of the corporate seal of said company did affix said corporate seal of
said company to said instrument as his or her own free voluntary act, and as the free and voluntary act of said
company for the uses and purposes set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal, this           day of           (month) 20        (year).
(Seal)                     
Notary Public
 
   (C)   School district certificate.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 1 of the State Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205/0.01 et
seq., an owner shall submit simultaneously with the subdivision plat a
notarized statement indicating to the best of the owner’s knowledge, the school
district in which each tract, parcel, lot or block lies.
      (2)   This submission can be on a separate paper accompanying the plat or
on the plat. If submitted as a separate certificate, the following wording is
required.
   School District Certificate
This is to certify that I,                        , as owner of the property described in the
                  Subdivision and legally described on the plat of the same name, have determined
to the best of my knowledge the school district in which each of the following lots lie:
 
Lot   School Districts
Number(s)   Elementary High School
                               
   Signature of Owner
SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN to before me this        day of        , 20        
                         
Notary Public
 
   (D)   Surveyor’s certificate. The surveyor who prepared the final plat shall
place thereon a certificate with the following wording.
   Surveyor’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
I,                       ,an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor do hereby certify that I have
surveyed and subdivided the following described property, and that the plat hereon drawn is a
correct representation thereof, all distances are shown in feet and decimal parts thereof.
   (Insert Legal Description)
Containing total area, including R.O.W.s: (in square feet and acres)
This is also to certify that upon completion of construction, concrete monuments, as shown,
and iron pipes at all lot corners and points of change in alignment will be set, as required
by the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.). This is also to certify that the property, as
described in the annexed plat, lies within the corporate limits of the City of Marengo,
Illinois, which has adopted a comprehensive plan.
Given under my hand and seal at        , Illinois this        day of        (month) 20       
(year).
Illinois Registered Professional Land Surveyor No.                      
 
   (E)   Certificate regarding flood hazard.
      (1)   In accordance with the Recorder’s Act (55 ILCS 5/3-5001 et seq.)
the surveyor shall determine if any part of the proposed subdivision lies
within a flood hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. An appropriate certificate shall be placed on the plat and signed by
the surveyor.
      (2)   The following wording is required, depending on which situation
exists.
   Flood Hazard Certificate
I certify that none of the above described property is located in a flood hazard area as
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
                   
   (signature)
   Illinois Registered Land Surveyor
   OR
I certify that none of the above described property as subdivided is located in a flood
hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency except as indicated
on FEMA Floodway Map, McHenry County, Illinois, Community Panel Number                ,
effective date                
Given under my hand and seal at                , Illinois this                day of
               (month), 20             (year).
Illinois Registered Professional Land Surveyor No.               
 
   (F)   County Department of Health certificate. The Plat Act, as amended
January 1, 1988, requires the local health department, if one exists, to sign a
plat with respect to sewage disposal systems if any lots will not be served by
a public sewer system. The following wording is required.
 
   Department of Health Certificate
No public sewer system exists to serve this subdivision. Septic system
suitability has been determined for all platted lots in accordance with the
pertinent sections of the McHenry County Subdivision Ordinance.
                        
(signature)
Public Health Administrator
 
   (G)   County Clerk’s certificate. The County Clerk shall make a tax search
of the land being subdivided. (See §
157.138.) A certificate is required on all final plats, indicating that any
back taxes and the required tax search fees have been paid. The following
wording is required.
   County Clerk’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
I,                , County Clerk in McHenry County, Illinois do hereby certify that there are no delinquent
general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes, and no redeemable tax against any of
the land included in the plat.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with the plat.
Given under my hand and seal of the County at Woodstock, Illinois, this                day of               
(month), 20                (year).
                                         
(signature)
McHenry County Clerk
 
   (H)   City Engineer’s certificate. A certificate shall be placed on the
final plat to indicate the approval of the City Engineer. The following wording
shall be used.
   City Engineer’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
The undersigned, as City Engineer for the City of Marengo, and relying upon the following certification of the City
Clerk:
 
I certify that an irrevocable letter of credit for completion of this subdivision’s improvements has been deposited with
my office on                day of                (month) 20                (year).
                   
   City Clerk
Hereby confirm that to the best of my knowledge, this plat of subdivision meets all the requirements of the ordinances of
the City of Marengo as of this                day of                (month) 20                (year). The City Engineer
shall not sign the plat until notification is received from the City Clerk that the subdivision improvement financial
guarantee has been received by the city.
                     
City Engineer
 
   (I)   County Stormwater Management Certificate. A certificate shall be
placed on the final plat to indicate the approval of the City Enforcement
Officer. The following wording shall be used.
   McHenry County Stormwater
   Management Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
The undersigned, as City Engineer for the City of Marengo, and relying upon the
following certification of the City Clerk:
The undersigned, acting as the City’s Enforcement Officer, do hereby certify
this plat of subdivision complies with the McHenry County Stormwater Management
Ordinance, as modified by the City of Marengo.
                                                                    
Enforcement Officer                      Date
 
   (J)   City Council’s certificate. A certificate shall be provided to
indicate approval of the final plat by the City Council. Space for the
signature of the Mayor and the Clerk shall be provided. The following wording
is required.
   City Council’s Approval
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
 
This plat and dedications shown hereon are hereby approved by the City Council of
Marengo, Illinois, at a meeting held on the                day of               
(month), 20                (year).
                
City Mayor
Attest:
                
City Clerk
 
   (K)   Recorder’s certificate. A certificate shall be placed on the final
plat to indicate the date and time of recording, and the book and page on which
recorded. The following wording is required.
 
   Recorder’s Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
This instrument filed for record in the Recorder’s office of McHenry County, Illinois, on this          day of
                (month), 20                (year), at                o’clock                .M. and recorded as
Document Number                
                        
County Recorder
 
   (L)   Easement crossing certificate. A certificate shall be placed on the
final plat to allow easement crossings. The following wording is required.
 
   Easement Crossing Provisions
All easements indicated as road construction and maintenance easements adjacent
to road rights-of-way on this plat are reserved for and granted to the City of
Marengo, their successors and assigns, for road construction and maintenance,
including maintenance of drainage ditches and slopes. Said easements may be
crossed perpendicularly by driveways and utilities and drainage or retention/
detention easement with the consent of the granter. Said granter reserves the
right to cut, trim, or remove trees, bushes and roots as may be reasonably
required incident to the rights herein given, and the right to enter upon said
property for all such purposes.
                                            
Owner                Date
 
   (M)   City Treasurer. A certificate shall be placed on the final plat
indicating that there are no delinquent or unpaid obligations to the city. In
the absence of the City Treasurer, the City Administrator can sign the
following certificate. The following general wording is required.
 
   City Treasurer’s Certificate
My signature, as Treasurer of the City of Marengo, certifies that there are no
delinquent or unpaid, current or forfeited special assessments or any deferred
installment thereof that has been apportioned against the land included in this
plat of subdivision.
 
Date:    
City Treasurer
 
   (N)   Road certificate(s). If interior subdivision streets or roads access
upon a county, township or state road, the following certificate(s) shall be
included on the final plat.
   Road Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
Approved this         day of         (month), 20         (year), as to roadway
access to (County/State/Township) Highway No.               also known as    
 
                   
(Signed)
County Engineer and/or
Illinois Department of Transportation and/or
Township Highway Commissioner
 
   (O)   State certificate. In accordance with the state regulation of rivers,
lakes and streams (615 ILCS 5/7), if a subdivision borders upon or includes any
public waters in which the state has any property rights or property interests,
it must have a boundary line indicated between the private interests and the
public interests. The proposed boundary line must be reviewed and approved by
the State Department of Transportation, Division of Water Resources for the
special certificate that must be placed on the final plat to indicate that the
boundary line has been approved.
   State of Illinois Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF MCHENRY   )
Approved by the State Department of Transportation insofar as this subdivision
plat, showing lands bordering upon or including public waters of the state,
relates to the provisions of § 7 of An Act in Relation to the Regulation of
Rivers, Lakes and Streams of the state approved June 10, 1911, as amended,
requiring review and approval by said Department as to the boundary line between
private interests and public interests.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with the
annexed plat.
 
Dates at Springfield, Illinois, this         day of         (month), 20        
(year). Approval recommended:                     
Director, State Division of Water Resources, by its Department of Transportation
By:             
Secretary
 
   (P)    Developer contribution. The following notice shall be placed on all
final plats of subdivision.
 
   Notice
 
All of the property described herein and platted in lots, blocks and other
parcels of units may be subject to a dedication of land or a payment in lieu of
land pursuant to §§
157.095 through
157.107 of the Marengo Subdivision Ordinance at the time of application for
building permit.
 
   (Q)   Compliance with approved building plans. The following notice shall be
placed on all final plats of subdivision.
 
   Notice
 
All building plans and architectural elevations for structures to be built in the
subdivision as presented to the City of Marengo and approved as part of the final
plat of Subdivision shall be submitted by the City Clerk to the Recorder’s Office
of McHenry County, Illinois and recorded together with either the declaration of
covenants or homeowners association bylaws for the subdivision, or recorded as a
separate document. All final building plans submitted to the city for construction
approval shall conform to the plans and elevations as contained in the recorded
documents.    Changes to building plans and elevations may be permitted upon
approval by the City of Marengo.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 803)
§ 157.138 TAX SEARCH.
   Before a final plat may be submitted to the City Council, the owner shall
make all payments of any and all taxes and special assessments levied against
the property being platted by him or her. In vacating subdivisions previously
platted, the petitioner shall submit evidence of the payment of all taxes and
special assessments levied against the property in the same manner as is
required for subdividing. (See § 157.137(G).)
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 804)
§ 157.139 RETAINED PERSONNEL FEES.
   (A)   The developer shall pay and reimburse the city for any and all
expenses it incurs and for any fees directly or indirectly incurred or charged
to the city by virtue of the review of any concept, preliminary, final
subdivision plat, engineering drawings and any inspection fees or charges
relating to services provided to confirm that subdivision improvements conform
to the requirements of this chapter, including, without limitation, copying
expense, recording fees, publication expenses and expenses of retained
personnel. RETAINED PERSONNEL shall be defined as any engineer, planner,
attorney or other technical professional, or paraprofessional person, firm or
corporation utilized by the city to assist or advise the city directly or
indirectly in planning, reviewing or evaluating, advising, approving, accepting
or inspecting any subdivision of the city. The city shall require the developer
to deposit into an account, under the control and authority of the city, fees
found in
Appendix H of this chapter.
   (B)   No proceeding shall occur until required fees are paid in accordance
with this chapter.
   (C)   The money deposited pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be
retained by the city as security to guarantee that all fees and expenses will
be paid by the developer. Retained personnel shall issue bills or invoices for
services rendered in conjunction with a particular subdivision to the city. The
developer shall pay invoices directly to the city.
   (D)   If at any time the City Clerk receives notice from an of the city’s
retained personnel that an invoice for services rendered, with respect to a
particular subdivision and with respect to which a copy of said invoice has
been forwarded to the particular developer, is unpaid and outstanding for a
minimum of 30 days, the City Clerk shall be authorized to pay said invoice
directly from the escrow account and shall contemporaneously send notice to the
developer that all further proceedings shall be stayed until the original
amount of the escrow is reestablished. Notice to the developer may be by
regular mail.
   (E)   Upon approval and recording of the final plat, the Clerk shall confirm
that all expenses and fees directly or indirectly incurred with respect to the
subdivision have been paid without expenses to the General Fund of the city,
and shall provide an account of any fees or expenses directly paid from the
escrow. Thereafter; the escrow shall be retained at 50% of the amount
originally, established and shall be held as security to confirm that on-site
review and inspection from the City Engineer or other retained personnel is
paid in accordance with the procedure outlined above in this section. Upon
final acceptance of subdivision improvements, any balance retained in the
escrow shall be paid forthwith to the developer. Funds deposited in escrow as
established pursuant to this section shall not accrue interest for the benefit
of the developer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 805)
§ 157.140 FILING FEE; PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The developer shall pay to the city at the time of the filing of the
preliminary flat a filing fee. (See
Appendix H of this chapter for fee amount.)
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, § 806)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, on conviction, be
subject to a fine of $500 per day along with payment of attorneys’ fees and
costs incurred by the city in prosecuting each such violation.
(Prior Code, § 23.02)
APPENDIX A: ENGINEERING PLANS
A-1 General
   All street and utility plans submitted in conjunction with a final plat
shall include engineering drawings consistent with this appendix.
A-2 Signature and Seal of Engineer Required
   All street land utility plans shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer and bear his or her signature, seal and date of license
expiration.
A-3 Minimum Data Required
   Street plans must be complete in all respects and must include at least the
following minimum data:
      Specifications (IDOT Standard Specifications and ISPE Standard
Specifications) for Water and Sewer;
      Plan and profile (to suitable scale) of all roads to be improved;
      Cross-sections (to suitable scale) at 100 foot (minimum);
      Size, length, material type and invert elevation of all drainage
structures (calculations must be furnished to justify all structures 24 inches
and larger);
      Plan and profile (to suitable scale), cross-sections (if appropriate) and
typical section of all off-site drainage within 300 feet and all on-site
drainage in drainage easements;
      Typical road section or sections as appropriate;
      Details of all structures and special construction of any nature. Typical
or specific details at road intersections, cul-de-sacs, “T” turn-arounds and
the like;
      Street construction and maintenance easements, drainage easements and lot
lines;
      All plans to the same topographic datum as the preliminary plat and two
permanent benchmarks;
      Street lighting as required by §§
157.055 (G) and
157.056(F);
      Sidewalks as required by §§
157.055 (F) and
157.056(G);
      Plan and profile of any water and sanitary sewer lines;
      Plan showing existing and proposed contours and storm sewer outfall
structures related to detention and retention basins; and
      Erosion control plans.
A-4 Cost Estimate
   A complete and detailed estimate of cost, prepared and signed by a
registered professional engineer, must accompany the plans.
A-5 Certificate of Insurance
   A certificate of insurance shall be filed with the city.
A-6 Preconstruction Requirements
   A preconstruction conference with the representatives of the developer and
the city will be required before the contractor proceeds with construction. The
contractor will notify the City Engineer and the city 48-hours in advance of
any work being started.
A-7 Best Engineering Practice and Compliance with Ordinance Required
   Review and approval of street and utility plans does not relieve the design
engineer of the responsibility for an adequate design in accordance with best
management practices and meeting the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. A)
APPENDIX B: LAND DEVELOPMENT EXHIBITS
B-1 Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
 Pre-School Elementary Junior High Total Grades High School Adults
            Grades K-5 Grades 6-8  K -8         Grades 9-12           Total Per
                                                                      Dwelling
 0-4 years  5-10 years 11-13 years 5-13 years   14-17 years 18+ years Unit
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
                              Junior    Total    High
           Pre-    Elementary High      Grades K School    Adults
           School  Grades K-5 Grades 6- -8       Grades 9-           Total Per
                              8                  12                  Dwelling
           0-                 11-13     5-13     14-17               Unit
           4 years 5-10 years years     years    years     18+ years

Apartments
Efficiency 0.000   0.000      0.000     0.000    0.000     1.294     1.294
1 Bedroom  0.000   0.002      0.001     0.003    0.001     1.754     1.758
2 Bedroom  0.047   0.086      0.042     0.128    0.046     1.693     1.914
3 Bedroom  0.052   0.234      0.123     0.357    0.118     2.526     3.053
Attached Single-Family
1 Bedroom  0.000   0.000      0.000     0.000    0.000     1.193     1.193
2 Bedroom  0.064   0.088      0.048     0.136    0.038     1.752     1.990
3 Bedroom  0.212   0.234      0.058     0.292    0.059     1.829     2.392
4 Bedroom  0.323   0.322      0.154     0.476    0.173     2.173     3.145
Detached Single-Family
2 Bedroom  0.113   0.136      0.048     0.184    0.020     1.700     2.017
3 Bedroom  0.292   0.369      0.173     0.542    0.184     1.881     2.899
4 Bedroom  0.418   0.530      0.298     0.828    0.360     2.158     3.764
5 Bedroom  0.283   0.345      0.248     0.593    0.300     2.594     3.770
Notes to Table:
Source: Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants,
Inc. Naperville, IL 1996.
 
B-2 Agreement Regarding the Receipt of Developer Subdivision Contributions
   AGREEMENT REGARDING THE RECEIPT
   OF DEVELOPER SUBDIVISION CONTRIBUTIONS
WHEREAS, the City of Marengo, Illinois, on behalf of itself, its officers,
employees and independent contractors (the “city”), through its ordinances or
through the provisions of its annexation agreements has required that
developers make contributions to the city, that the city, in turn, may make
available for other government bodies that are affected by the subdivision
improvements; and
WHEREAS, such contributions may be in land or in money and, when transferred or
paid over to those government bodies, inure to the benefit of those government
bodies and not entirely to the direct benefit of the city; and
WHEREAS, from time to time within the city, and within other municipalities,
disputes have arisen regarding the validity and amount of such contributions;
and
WHEREAS, the city is willing, at its discretion, to continue seeking the
contribution of land or money but wishes to procure a commitment from other
government bodies benefited by the receipt of such contributions that those
government bodies will: (a) acknowledge that the requirement that such
subdivision contributions be made are totally within the discretion of the city
as to their existence, manner and amount; (b) pay the cost of defending any
lawsuit that is filed challenging the appropriate amount of the contributions,
the time at which they are to be made or any other aspect of the contributions;
and (c) comply with the terms of a final and nonappealable judicial
determination by a court of competent jurisdiction rendered in connection with
the lawsuit; and
WHEREAS, the city is willing, in its discretion, to pay over or require
contributions only to other government bodies that execute this agreement
annually;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration for the payment of money or the transfer of
the land to the Benefiting Government, which the city from time to time may
within its discretion cause to be made by developers that are subdividing
property, IT IS AGREED between the city on behalf of itself and its officers,
employees, and independent contractors, and
                                                       , a government body
within the state (the “Benefiting Government”), as follows:
   1.   The Benefiting Government acknowledges that, except as otherwise
provided in the city’s ordinances and/or annexation agreements, the city is not
obligated to cause the payment of money or the transfer of land to the
Benefiting Government. The Benefiting Government recognizes that the city may,
at its sole discretion, amend its ordinances or annexation agreements or its
practices to discontinue the payment of contributions to the Benefiting
Government.
   2.   A.   In the event a lawsuit is filed against the city, the Benefiting
Government and/or others by a developer that is subdividing property or any
other person, corporation or entity that challenges the appropriateness,
amount, timing or any other aspect of a contribution that, pursuant to the
terms of the city’s ordinances or annexation agreements, has been paid or is
due to the Benefiting Government, then the Benefiting Government does agree to
pay the costs and litigation expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees)
incurred in defending such lawsuit. The costs and expenses shall be paid by the
Benefiting Government when and as incurred by the city but in no event more
than once a month. As a condition precedent to the payment of these costs and
expenses, the city shall submit to the Benefiting Government copies of the
original statements reflecting the costs and expenses, together with the non-
privileged supporting documentation that may be reasonably requested by the
Benefiting Government.
      B.   The city covenants and agrees that upon consulting with the
benefiting government, it shall employ competent and skilled legal counsel to
represent the Benefiting Government and the city, and further covenants and
agrees that it shall keep the Benefiting Government fully advised as to the
progress and status of the litigation. In particular, the city shall provide to
the Benefiting Government copies of all pleadings filed in the litigation and
shall consult regularly (and shall cause its attorneys to consult regularly)
with the Benefiting Government or its attorneys, as applicable, as to the
strategy for defending the lawsuit. In no event may such litigation be
compromised or settled by the city without at least 30 days’ prior written
notice to the Benefiting Government.
      C.   In the event that the Benefiting Government decides that it would
prefer to be represented in the litigation by legal counsel of its own
choosing, then the Benefiting Government shall be free to retain its own legal
counsel for that purpose, to intervene in the litigation and to ask the city to
terminate its representation of the Benefiting Government under § 2 of this
agreement. The Benefiting Government shall notify the city, in writing, to that
effect. In that event, this agreement shall remain in full force and effect
regarding all other provisions of this agreement, and the Benefiting Government
shall remain liable to the city for all sums that have accrued under this
agreement up until the date that such written notice is received and for all
sums that remain due and owing from the Benefiting Government to the city
relating to the defense of any lawsuit under the terms of this agreement.
   3.   The Benefiting Government shall further indemnify and hold harmless the
city from any and all liability arising from Article 10 of the city’s
Subdivision Ordinance, including, but not limited to, the general
administration and handling of funds required by the city and/or the Benefiting
Government.
   4.   In the event that a final and non-appealable judicial determination is
made by a court of competent jurisdiction that contributions of land or money
received by the Benefiting Government are, in whole or in part, excessive, the
Benefiting Government shall promptly repay those contributions to the person
who procures such a judgment, together with all other amounts judged by the
court to be owing from the Benefiting Government. In the event that a judicial
determination should require the payment of damages or payment of the
attorneys’ fees of the plaintiff’s attorneys, the Benefiting Government shall
pay all additional amounts.
   5.   In further consideration of the continued payment by the city to the
Benefiting Government of the subject contributions of land or money, the
Benefiting Government agrees that its obligations under this agreement shall
extend to both past and future cash and land contributions.
   6.   On or before September 1 of each year, every Benefiting Government that
receives payments from the city under this agreement shall submit a report to
the city describing the manner in which the payments have been used and provide
any additional information the city may require. When the money turned over to
Benefiting Government is to be used for a specific purpose or within a specific
time period, the report shall address those issues. If the Benefiting
Government should fail to file such a report with the city, the city may delay
the payment of any additional funds due the Benefiting Government until such
time as a full report containing adequate information is transmitted to the
city. The Benefiting Government understands that it will be asked to execute an
indemnity agreement similar to this agreement on an annual basis and that the
city shall not pay any additional funds due to the Benefiting Government until
such time as the city is in receipt of such annually executed indemnity
agreement.
   7.   This agreement shall be terminable by either party for any reason or no
reason at all upon 30 days’ prior written notice to the other party evidencing
the intention to so terminate this agreement. But the termination of this
agreement shall not affect the continuing obligation of the Benefiting
Government or the city with regard to claims or damages allegedly arising out
of the city’s efforts prior to termination to impose, collect or distribute
contributions, or to the actual distribution of subdivision contributions.
DATED this                   day of                           ,             .
City of                                                           Benefiting
Government:
                                                                                                
Mayor
   Title:                             
(SEAL)   (SEAL)
ATTEST:   ATTEST:
                                                                                                         
City Clerk   Secretary
B-3   Agreement Between Owner and Municipality to Delay Payment of Cash
Contributions
   AGREEMENT BETWEEN OWNER AND MUNICIPALITY TO DELAY PAYMENT OF CASH
   CONTRIBUTIONS
   The City of Marengo (the “city”) and
                                                       , (“Owner”) agree as
follows. For purposes of this agreement, “Owner” is defined as the individual,
firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, corporation, trust or any other
legal entity having a proprietary interest of record in the subject property,
except that in the case of a trust the Owner shall be deemed to include the
beneficiary or beneficiaries and the trustee thereof. The term “Owner” also
includes the Owner’s authorized agent or any person authorized by such owner to
apply for city approval in connection with a final plat of subdivision,
building permit or other improvement or development upon real property.
   1.   The city has approved a final plat of subdivision or a final plat of a
planned development at the request of Owner for the real estate legally
described in Exhibit 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (the “Land”).
Accordingly, pursuant to the city’s Subdivision Ordinance, certain cash
contributions in lieu of dedications for library, fire/rescue, park and
recreation, and school lands are immediately due the benefiting district from
the Owner.
   2.   Owner has, however, requested that the payment of the aforesaid cash
contributions be delayed and that the same become due and payable on a per
dwelling unit basis at the time the city issues a building permit for the
particular dwelling unit.
   3.   In consideration for the city agreeing to delay the required payment to
the benefiting district of the cash contributions in accordance with Paragraph
2 above, Owner hereby agrees as follows:
      (a)   The amount of cash contributions owed shall be calculated based
upon Ordinance No.                                     or as provided for in
such other future ordinance amending or replacing Ordinance No.
                                which is in effect at the time of the issuance
of a building permit; and
      (b)   Notwithstanding any present or future law, regulation and/or legal
precedent to the contrary, the unit of local government or benefiting district
that is the ultimate recipient of the subject cash contributions may expend
such contributions for any of the following purposes intended to serve
immediate or future needs of the residents and children of the Owner’s
subdivision or planned development: (1) for the acquisition of land; (2) for
site improvements such as, by way of example, streets, curbs, gutters,
stormwater control and utility extensions; (3) for construction of capital
facilities, including, by way of example, new buildings and structures, and the
expansion or enhancement of existing buildings and structures; (4) for the
acquisition of capital equipment which would qualify as a depreciable property
under Internal Revenue Service regulations; and (5) for so-called soft costs
directly related to the foregoing items (2) or (3) such as architectural and
engineering costs.
   4.   Owner has reviewed all provisions of Article 10 of the city’s
Subdivision Ordinance regarding the dedication of land or sites or cash
contributions in lieu thereof, as well as all of the methodology, formulae,
calculations, projections, assumptions, numbers and other factors used to
arrive at the land dedication requirements or cash contributions in lieu
thereof that are the subject of the this agreement (hereinafter referred to as
the “Ordinance and Attendant Calculations”) and hereby acknowledges and agrees
that:
      (a)   Pursuant to the terms of the Ordinance, Owner has been offered the
opportunity to raise in a hearing before the city, any objections relating to
acreage requirements, presumptions as to fair market value, the density formula
or any other application of the Ordinance; Owner has not raised such
objections; Owner has thereby waived the right to assert those objections;
      (b)   Owner hereby waives any future right to object to or to institute
any legal action regarding Ordinance and Attendant Calculations; and
      (c)   Owner hereby acknowledges that Ordinance and Attendant Calculations
have been properly passed, calculated and imposed.
   5.   This agreement constitutes a covenant that is appurtenant to and runs
with the Land. Either this agreement or a memorandum thereof may be recorded
against legal title to the Land by either party hereto; provided, however, it
shall be a condition of the city’s issuance of the first building permit for a
dwelling unit on the Land that Owner shall provide satisfactory evidence to the
city that this agreement or a memorandum thereof has been recorded against
legal title to the Land.
   6.   Owner represents and warrants to the city that it is the sole holder of
record fee title to the Land.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the city and the Owner have caused this agreement to be
duly authorized, executed and entered into as of the                   day of
                          ,             .
                                                                      
Dennis Hammortree Mayor   Owner
   ATTEST:
                                                         
Barbara Bigalke
City Clerk
(ATTACH EXHIBIT B-2, LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF REAL ESTATE)
B-4 Acknowledgment of Notification Rights
   Acknowledgment of Notification Rights
Developer hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of Article 10 of the City of
Marengo Subdivision Ordinance, that describes, in Section 1009, the developer’s
right to object to the imposition of dedication requirements or cash in lieu of
land requirements.
Developer further acknowledges that if it has any objection to such imposition,
that it must follow the procedure set forth in said Section 1009. Failure to do
so by the developer shall constitute a waiver of the developer’s right to
object to such imposition. Payment of the fees or transfer of land
pursuant to Article 10 shall constitute a waiver of any right to such a
hearing.
Signed:                           
Date:                           
Witness:                           
Date:                           
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. B)
APPENDIX C: ENDANGERED SPECIES CONSULTATION ACTION REPORT
Date Submitted:                              (Office Use Only)
   Project Code
   Date Due
Agency Name:                           
Contact Person:                          
Phone:                           
Agency Address:                           
DESCRIBE PRECISE LOCATION OF PROPOSED ACTION:
County(ies):                           
City/Town:                           
Township/Range/Section:                           
U.S.G.S. Quad Map Name(s):                           
Brief Description of the proposed action:
Please enclose a map delineating the location of the proposed action.
***********************************************************************************
   For Natural Heritage Use Only
QUADCODE(S):                           
Are there any threatened/endangered species or natural areas located within the
vicinity of the project? (Yes) (No) If yes, the consultation process should
continue. If no, the consultation process is terminated.
Evaluation approved by:
                                                                                        
Endangered and Threatened Species   Date
Program Manager
Submit to:   Natural Heritage Division, State Department of Conservation
524 S Second Street, Room 485
Springfield, IL 62701-1787
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. C)
APPENDIX D: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
D-1 General
   The following form is acceptable for meeting the guarantees required by this
chapter.
D-2 Letter of Credit
   IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
Date:                           
Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.:                           
Beneficiary   Applicant
City of Marengo   (Party requesting letter of credit)
132 East Prairie Street   Address
Marengo, IL 60152
Attention: City Clerk
   Amount
   USD $  (Amount)  
   Expiration Date                           
The undersigned,  (bank)  of  (city/state)  , hereby issues to the City of
Marengo, Illinois 60152 (the “city”), this irrevocable Letter of Credit in the
initial amount of $                    , which amount is subject to reduction
in accordance with the provisions hereof, and which the amount, as in effect on
the date hereof or as so reduced hereafter, is hereinafter referred to as the
“stated amount.” The undersigned represents and warrants that the undersigned
has full power and authority to issue this Letter of Credit, and that all
conditions precedent to the issuance of the Letter of Credit have been
satisfied.
   1.   Draws. Credit may be drawn by the city by means of presentation to the
undersigned of the city’s sight draft substantially in the form of Annex 1.
      Draws on said Letter of Credit must also be accompanied by the
certificate of the city substantially in the form of Annex 2 certifying either:
(1) that said Letter of Credit is about to expire and has not been renewed; or
(2) that work has not been completed in accordance with the plans,
specifications and agreements (including any amendments thereof) for the
following project (the “Project”):
   (Description of Project)
      Draws in an amount less than the stated amount are permitted. There is no
limit on the number of draws the city may take under this Letter of Credit.
   2.   Reduction of stated amount. The stated amount may be reduced upon
presentation by the city of this Letter of Credit and of a certificate
substantially in the form of Annex 3. Such certificate shall be appropriately
completed, and shall be delivered to the undersigned at the address above along
with the original Letter of Credit. Upon receipt of the certificate and the
Letter of Credit, the undersigned shall immediately note the reduced amount on
the face of the Letter of Credit, or cancel this Letter of Credit and
simultaneously reissue a Letter of Credit-identical to this Letter of Credit
for the reduced stated amount.
   3.   Amendment of Project Description. The Project may be amended upon
presentation by the city of this Letter of Credit and of a certificate
substantially in the form of Annex 4. Such certificate shall be appropriately
completed, and shall be delivered to the undersigned at the address above along
with the original Letter of Credit. Upon receipt of the certificate and the
Letter of Credit, the undersigned shall immediately note the amendment to the
Project description on the face of this Letter of Credit or cancel this Letter
of Credit and simultaneously reissue a Letter of Credit identical to this
Letter of Credit with the amended Project description.
   4.   Expiration. This irrevocable Letter of Credit shall expire on  (Date/
Year); provided, however, the undersigned shall notify the city, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at least 35 days prior to said expiration date,
that said Letter of Credit is about to expire. In no event shall this
irrevocable Letter of Credit or the obligations contained herein expire except
upon said prior written notice, it being expressly agreed by the undersigned
that the above: expiration date shall be and shall be required to comply with
this notice provision. Notice shall be made to the City of Marengo, 132 East
Prairie Street, Marengo, IL 60152, Attention: City Clerk. The undersigned
further agrees that this irrevocable Letter of Credit shall remain in full
force and effect and pertain to any and all amendments or modifications which
may be made from time to time to the plans, specifications and agreements for
the project, with or without notice from the city of such amendments or
modifications.
   5.   Payment.  (Name of Bank) hereby undertakes and engages that all demands
made in conformity with this irrevocable Letter of Credit will be duly honored
and payment shall be made in immediately available funds upon presentation. If,
within ten days of the date any demand (made in conformity with this
irrevocable Letter of Credit) is presented, the undersigned fails to honor
same, the undersigned agrees to pay all attorney’s fees, Court costs and other
expenses incurred by the city in enforcing the terms of this Letter of Credit.
   6.   Governing Law. This Letter of Credit and each provision hereof, shall
be governed by and construed in accordance with the Uniform Customs and
Practice for Documentary Credits (1983 Revision), International Chamber of
Commerce, Publication No. 400 (the “Uniform Customs”). This Letter of Credit
shall be deemed a contract made under the laws of the state and shall; as to
matters not governed by the Uniform Customs, be governed by and construed in
accordance with such laws. The undersigned agrees that venue for any actions
brought with respect to this Letter of Credit shall be in the 19th Judicial
Circuit, McHenry County, Illinois.
(Name of Bank)
By:                              Attest:                           
Title:                              Title:                           
   Annex I
   Form of Sight Draft
$                                                            , 20
                          
At Sight of this Draft
Pay to the order of City of Marengo, Illinois, as beneficiary under the
Irrevocable Letter of Credit referred to below, $                          
Dollars for value received.
Drawn under  (Bank)  , Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.
                          
To:   (Bank)
(Address)
Attention:
                                                                      
City of Marengo, Illinois
By:                           
   Annex 2
   Form of Certificate for Drawing
The undersigned, the Clerk of the City of Marengo (the “city”), with full
authority to bind the city, as beneficiary (the “Beneficiary” under the Letter
of Credit referred to below, hereby certifies, with reference to its
Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.                           issued by  (Bank)
(the “Bank”, in favor of the Beneficiary (the “Letter of Credit”), that:
   1.   The Letter of Credit is about to expire and has not been renewed;
   (or, in the alternative)
   2.   Work has not been completed in accordance with the plans,
specifications and agreements (including any amendments thereof) for the
following project:
   (Description of Project)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Beneficiary has executed and delivered this certificate
as of the                  day of (month                           ), 20
(year)  .
City of Marengo, Illinois
By:                           
Title: City Clerk
   Annex 3
   Form of Certificate for Reduction of stated amount
The undersigned, the Clerk of the City of Marengo (the “city”), with full
authority to bind the city, as beneficiary (the “Beneficiary” under the Letter
of Credit referred to below, hereby certifies, with reference to its
Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.                           issued by  (Bank)
(the “Bank”), in favor of the Beneficiary (the “letter of Credit”), that
   1.   Pursuant to the agreement entered into by and between city and
                          (the “Company”), dated                          
(month)                           , 20  (year)  , the amount available to be
drawn under the letter of Credit (the “stated amount”), is reduced by $
                     , and effective on your receipt hereof, the stated amount
shall be reduced to $                          , and such amount
   1.   Shall thereafter constitute the entire stated amount of the letter of
Credit.
   2.   The undersigned hereby certifies (1) that he or she is authorized to
sign this Certificate relating to the Letter of Credit on behalf of the
Beneficiary, and the (2) that the Beneficiary has, with the written consent of
the Company, reduced the stated amount of the Letter of Credit.
      Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined in the Letter of
Credit.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Beneficiary has executed and delivered this certificate
as of the                           day of (month)                           ,
20  (year)  .
City of Marengo, Illinois
By:                           
Title: City Clerk
   Annex 4
   Form of Certificate for Amendment of Project Description
The undersigned, the Clerk of the City of Marengo (the “city”), with full
authority to bind the city, as beneficiary (the “Beneficiary” under the Letter
of Credit referred to below, hereby certifies, with reference to its
Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.                           issued by  (Bank)
(the “Bank”), in favor of the Beneficiary (the “Letter of Credit”), that
   1.   Pursuant to the agreement entered into by and between city and
                          (the “Company”), dated                          
(month), 20                           (year), the description of the project as
contained in paragraph 1 of the Letter of Credit shall be amended upon the
undersigned’s receipt of this certificate and the original Letter of Credit.
After giving effect to the amendment, the description of the Project shall be
as follows:
   and such Project description shall constitute the Project description for
the Letter of Credit unless further amended.
Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined in the Letter of
Credit.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Beneficiary has executed and delivered this certificate
as of the                           day of                           (month),
20                     (year).
City of Marengo, Illinois
By:                           
Title: City Clerk
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. D)
APPENDIX E: RETAINED PERSONNEL FEES
   Retained Personnel Fees Form agreement
The following form of agreement is approved for purposes of meeting the
requirements of this Appendix.
   CITY OF MARENGO
   REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES AGREEMENT
   City of Marengo Account No.                          
Owner:
Name of Property Owner:                          
Owner’s Address:
                                                                            
Telephone Number:                          Days                         
Evenings
PETITIONER:
Name of Petitioner:                          
Petitioner’s Address:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Telephone Number:                          Days                         
Evenings
LOCATION OF PROPERTY:
General Location:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
Total Acreage:                          PIN:                          
Legal Description (attach as Exhibit A)
E-1 Deposit
   In the event that it is necessary for the city to obtain professional
services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, planners,
architects, surveyors, traffic or drainage experts or other consultants, in
connection with any Petitioner’s request for the city to consider or otherwise
take action upon any annexation, zoning change, subdivision development, other
improvement or development upon real property, then the Petitioner and Owner of
the property shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such
professional fees plus 5% to cover the city’s administrative expenses. At the
time the Petitioner requests action from the city he or she will be required to
deposit a sum, in accordance with §
157.016, with the city as an initial deposit to be credited against fees and
costs incurred for the above described services.
E-2 Invoices
   The city shall send a petitioner regular invoices for the fees and costs and
the petitioner shall reimburse the city within 30 days of said invoice. At all
times, the petitioner shall maintain a balance equal to his or her initial
deposit with the city.
E-3 Withdrawal of Petition
   A petitioner who withdraws a petition for annexation, zoning change,
subdivision development, other implement or development upon real property to
the city may apply in writing to the City Clerk for a refund of his or her
initial deposit. The City Council may, in its discretion, approve the refund
application less any actual fees and costs which the city has already incurred
relative to the petition for annexation.
E-4 Professional Fee
   Any professional fees incurred as a direct or indirect result of the
petitioner, owner or their agent requesting a professional opinion or otherwise
requesting relief or assistance from the, city, whether or not related to real
property, shall be reimbursed in accordance with this chapter if, in the
discretion of the city, a professional opinion is desired.
E-5 Default
   Upon the failure of the owner or petitioner to reimburse the city in
accordance with this section, no action on any request made by the owner or
petitioner will be undertaken by the City Council, or by any other official,
quasi-official or deliberative individual or body, and such request shall
remain in abeyance until all outstanding fees are paid in full. Upon any
failure to reimburse the city in accordance with this chapter, the city may, in
its discretion, elect to place a lien against any real property associated with
the petitioner’s request. Interest in the amount of 1.5% per month shall accrue
on all sums outstanding for 30 days or more. Such lien shall be in an amount
equal to the outstanding amount owed to the city.
E-6 Assigning Authority
   The Mayor and City Council and the designated city staff members are hereby
authorized to assign requests for professional services to the city staff or to
consultants as the Mayor deems appropriate.
E-7 In-House Staff
   When any professional services required by ordinance are rendered by the
city staff, then in such case the party making the request shall reimburse the
city for its cost incurred in providing said professional services. Said
reimbursement shall be at the rate of $30 per hour.
E-8 Remedies
   The remedies available to the city as set forth herein are non-exclusive,
and nothing herein shall be construed to limit or waive the city’s right to
proceed against any or all parties in a court of law of competent jurisdiction.
E-9 Agreement
   At the time the petitioner requests action from the city, he or she will be
required to enter into an agreement, which is the Retained Personnel Fees Form
Agreement in this appendix.
E-10 Refund
   Any surplus funds in the account of the petitioner or owner shall be
returned three months after approval by the City Attorney and City Engineer,
upon written request by the petitioner or owner.
   By signing this agreement, the petitioner and/or owner acknowledge that each
of them has read the foregoing paragraphs and each of them fully understands
and agrees to comply with the terms set forth herein. Further, by signing
below, each signatory warrants that he, she or it possesses full authority to
so sign. The owner and/or petitioner agree that owner and petitioner shall be
jointly and severally liable for payment of fees referred to in applicable
sections of the ordinances of the City of Marengo, and as referred to
hereinabove.
   City of Marengo
                             By:                          
Petitioner   City Administrator
                             ATTEST:
Owner
                          
Date:                                                       
   City Clerk
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. E)
APPENDIX F: RECOMMENDED STREET TREES
F-1 Recommended Street Trees
CITY OF MARENGO
Recommended Landscape Planting Lists
prepared by Teska Associates, Inc.
PARKWAY PLANTINGS
RECOMMENDED STREET TREES FOR PARKWAY PLANTINGS
For use where overhead wires do not exist minimum mature height of 30 feet or
more.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name                               Common Name
Acer x freemanii                             Freeman Maple
Acer platanoides cultivars                   Norway Maple
Acer rubrum ‘Red Sunset’                 Red Sunset Red Maple
Acer saccharum                               Sugar Maple
Acer saccharum ‘Green Mountain’          Green Mountain Sugar Maple
Acer saccharum ‘Wright Brothers’         Wright Brothers Sugar Maple
Aesculus hippocastanum                       Common Horsechestnut
Carya ovata                                  Shagbark Hickory
Celtis occidentalis                          Common Hackberry
Celtis occidentalis ‘Prairie Pride’      Prairie Pride Hackberry
Corylus colurna                              Turkish Filbert
Ginkgo biloba (male only)                    Ginkgo
Ginkgo biloba ‘Autumn Gold’              Autumn Gold Ginkgo
Ginkgo biloba ‘Fairmount’                Fairmount Ginkgo
Ginkgo biloba ‘Lakeview’                 Lakeview Ginkgo
Ginkgo biloba ‘Princeton Sentry’         Princeton Sentry Ginkgo
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis ‘Greenglory�Greenglory Honeylocust
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis ‘Halka’   Halka Honeylocust
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis ‘ShademasterShademaster Honeylocust
Gleditsia triancanthos inermis ‘Skyline’ Skyline Honeylocust
Gymnocladus dioica                           Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans nigra                                Black Walnut
Liquidambar styraciflua                      Sweetgum
Liriodendron tulipifera                      Tulip Tree, Yellow Poplar
Ostyra virginiana                            Ironwood
Phellodendron amurense                       Amur Corktree
Quercus alba                                 White Oak
Quercus bicolor                              Swamp White Oak
Quercus imbricaria                           Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa                           Bur Oak
Quercus muehlenbergii                        Chinquapin Oak
Quercus robur                                English Oak
Quercus rubrum                               Red Oak
Tilia americana                              American Linden
Tilia americana ‘Fastigiata’             Pyramidal American Linden
Tilia americana ‘Redmond’                Redmond American Linden
Tilia cordata ‘Glenleven’                Glenleven Linden
Tilia cordata ‘Greenspire’               Greenspire Littleaf Linden
Tilia cordata ‘Olympic’                  Olympic Linden
Tilia cordata ‘Chancellor’               Chancellor Linden
Tilia x euchlora                             Redmond Linden
Ulmus carpinifolia ‘Accolade’            Accolade Smoothleaf Elm
Ulmus carpinifolia ‘Homestead’           Homestead Smoothleaf Elm
Ulmus carpinifolia ‘Regal’               Regal Smoothleaf Elm
Zelkova serrata                              Zelkova
Zelkova serrata ‘Greenvase’              Greenvase Zelkova
 
RECOMMENDED STREET TREES FOR PARKWAY PLANTINGS
For use where overhead wires exist 15-30 feet maximum mature height.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name              Common Name
Acer Ginnala                Amur Maple
Amelanchier canadensis      Serviceberry
Carpinus carolinia          Ironwood (American Hornbeam)
Cercis candensis            Redbud
Cornus mas                  Corneliancherry Dogwood
Cornusmas alternifolia      Pagoda Dogwood
Crataegus phaenopyrum       Washington Hawthorn
Crataegus crus-gall         Cockspur Hawthorn
Hammamelis virginiana       Witch Hazel
Malus sp.                   Flowering Crab Sp.
Ostrya virginiana           Ironwood
Syringa reticulati clutivar Japanese Tree lilac “Ivory Silk”
Viburnum lentago            Nannyberry
Viburnum prunifolium        Blackhaw Viburnum
 
F-2    Street Trees Not Recommended
   The following tree forms are unacceptable for parkway plantings:
      Espalier or topiary: geometrical plant forms achieved thorough pruning
which are contrary to natural form;
      Dwarf or small scale: trees which grow taller than 3’-0” but cannot be
under-trimmed to a minimum height of 7’-0”; and
      Topped or dehorned: trees with most of the crown removed, such that the
main branches end abruptly in stubs.
   The following tree species and varieties are unacceptable:
      Conifers or needle evergreens are unacceptable;
      Trees with thorns are unacceptable; and
      Trees which drop messy fruits are unacceptable.
Botanical Name Common Name
Botanical Name         Common Name
Acer negundo           Box Elder
Acer saccharinum       Silver Maple
Aesculus spp.          Buckeye species
Ailanthus altissima    Tree-of-Heaven
Castanea spp.          Chestnut
Catalpa spp.           Catalpa species
Eleangus angustifolia  Russian Olive
Fraxinus spp.          Ash species
Ginkgo biloba (female) Female Ginkgo
Halesia spp.           Silverbell species
Madura pomifera        Osage Orange
Morus spp.             Mulberry species
Oxydendrum spp.        Sourgum species
Populus spp.           Poplar, Cottonwood, Aspen
Prunus spp.            Cherry, Peach, Plum
Pyrus spp.             Flowering Pear species
Rhamnus spp.           Buckthorn species
Robinia spp.           Black Locust
Salix spp.             Willow species
Sorbus spp.            Mountain Ash
 
F-3 Guidelines for Protecting Existing Trees
   To better ensure the survival of existing trees, the developer should follow
standard horticultural and construction practices in the area for the
protection of existing trees. The following guidelines are a minimum summary of
those practices:
   Protect trees with fencing and armoring during the entire construction
period. The fence should enclose an area with a ten foot radius with the tree
at the center;
   Avoid compacting the soil around existing trees with heavy equipment. Do not
pile dirt or construction materials or waste beneath the crown of the tree; and
   Keep fires and sources of extreme heat away from existing trees. Repair
damaged roots and branches immediately. Exposed roots should be covered with
topsoil. Severed limbs and roots should be painted. Whenever roots are
destroyed, a proportional amount of branches should be pruned so the tree does
not transpire more water than it takes in. Injured trees must be thoroughly
watered during the next year.
F-4 Guidelines for Planting Trees
   The trees on the recommended list have minimal maintenance requirements.
However, all trees must receive some care, especially during and immediately
after planting. To ensure survival of newly planted, trees, the developer
should follow standard horticultural and construction practices in the area for
the protection of existing lines. The following guidelines are a minimum
summary of those practices:
   The best times for planting are early spring and early fall. Trees planted
in the summer run the risk of dehydration.
   Dig the tree pit at least two-feet wider than the root ball and at least six
inches deeper than the ball’s depth. Loosen the soil within another one foot of
the pits circumference.
   If the soil has become compacted, loosen the bottom of the pit with a pick
ax or shovel.
   Backfill with good soil. Water backfill as it is placed in the pit.
   Completely cover all roots.
   Immediately after planting support the tree with stakes and wires to hold it
firmly in place as its root system begins to develop. Remove support after one
year.
   Spread at least three inches of mulch over entire excavation to retain
moisture and control weeds. Add three more inches of mulch in a basin shape
immediately around the tree.
   Wrap the lower trunks of new trees with burlap or paper to prevent
evaporation and sun scald. Remove after one year.
   Water the tree during extended dry periods and before the first hard frost
for the first year.
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. F)
APPENDIX G: WATER MAIN MATERIALS LIST
City Water Main, Sanitary Sewer, Storm Sewer Materials List
City Water Main, Sanitary Sewer, Storm Sewer Materials List
Butterfly Valve (12” diameter and Butterfly valves shall be cast iron in accordance with AWWA Standard C-
larger)                             504, and as manufactured by Mueller Company Model B 3211-20, or Pratt
                                    Groundhog.
Catch Basin, Type A or Type C       Pre-cast reinforced concrete in accordance with Articles 602.02 and
                                    743.01 of the Standard Specifications.
                                    In accordance with Article 604 of the Standard Specifications and as
Catch Basin Frame and Grate, Type 8 manufactured by:
or Type 37M                         Neenah
                                    Foundry East Jordan Iron Works. Inc.
                                    Co.
   Type 8                        R-4340- No. 6527
                                    B
   Type 37M                      R-4342  No. 6489
                                    Corporation stops shall be brass, copper outlet, as manufactured by
Corporation Stop                    Mueller Company Model No. H-15008 (1” diameter) or Model No. H-15013 (l-
                                    1/2” and 2” diameter). No alternates allowed.
                                    Curb boxes shall be cast iron, 6’ bury and with a 39” rod, as
Curb Box                            manufactured by Mueller Company Model No. H-10306 (1-1/4” diameter) or
                                    Model No. H-10386 (1-1/2” and 2” diameter). No alternates allowed.
                                    In accordance with § 604 of the Standard Specifications and as
Curb Inlet Frame and Grate, Type 11 manufactured by Neenah Foundry Company (R0328 1-A) or East Jordan Iron
                                    Works. Inc. (No. 7210, Type Ml grade).
                                    Curb valves shall be brass, as manufactured by Mueller Company Model No.
Curb Valve                          H 1504-2 (1” diameter) or Model No. B-25155 (1-1/2” and 2” diameter). No
                                    alternates allowed.
                                    Fire Hydrants shall be Cast Iron in accordance with AWWA C-502, and as
                                    manufactured by Mueller Company, Model No. A423 Super Centurion 250. No
                                    alternatives allowed. Hydrants shall have a 6” M.J. connection with 18”
                                    separation from 6” Mueller A2360 valve installed with Tyler 664S Valve
Fire Hydrant                        Box and Adapter II Valve Box Stabilizer. Hydrants shall have two 2-1/2”
                                    pentagon operating nut opening counter clockwise and be pained red.
                                    Standard depth of bury shall be 6’0” and no hydrants shall exceed 7’0”
                                    bury. No more than one extension section shall be allowed. Hydrants
                                    shall be furnished with weep holes. All hydrant parts and extensions
                                    must be original manufacturer’s parts.
                                    Gate Valves shall be cast iron in accordance with AWWA Standard C-509,
Gate Valve (Less than 12” diameterand as manufactured by Mueller Company Model No. A 2360-20. No
                                    alternates allowed.
Pipe Culvert                        Corrugated steel pipe in accordance with Articles 542.02 and 706.01(a)-
                                    of the Standard Specifications
Sanitary Manhole                    Precast reinforced concrete, in accordance with § 32 of the Standard
                                    Specifications for Water and Sewer.
                                    Sanitary Sewer manhole sections shall be sealed with Mac Wrap or
Sanitary Manhole Frame Chimney Seal approved equal. Manhole chimneys shall be installed with Internal/
                                    External manhole seal as manufactured by Adapter, Inc. Cretex External
                                    manhole seal or approved equal.
                                    In accordance with § 32 of the Standard Specifications for Water and
Sanitary Manhole Frame and Lid (In  Sewer and as manufactured by Neenah Foundry Co. (R-1712 or R1713) or
Pavement or Parkway)                East Jordan Irion Works, Inc. (No. 1050HD), lids marked “Sanitary” and
                                    “Marengo”.
Sanitary Sewer Fittings             D3034 gasketed wyes with 45 degree bend. Services deeper than 6’ shall
                                    use risers and riser adaptors.
Sanitary Sewer Pipe                 PVC SDR 26, in accordance with ASTM D-3034 or approved equal by Water
                                    Superintendent.
                                    Reinforced concrete pipe in accordance with applicable Articles 550.03,
Storm Sewer Pipe                    740.03, 740.05 and 740.07 of the Standard Specifications for Road and
                                    Bridge Construction (Standard Specifications).
Storm Sewer Manhole, Type A         Pre-cast reinforced concrete in accordance with Articles 602.02 and
                                    743.01 of the Standard Specifications.
Storm Sewer Manhole Frame and Lid   As manufactured by Neenah Foundry Company (R-1772) or East Jordan Iron
                                    Works, Inc. (No. 1622, Type Ml cover), lids marked “Storm”.
Sump Pump Drains                    All drains will be tied into the storm sewer using 6” diameter minimum,
                                    PVC SDR 26.
                                    Tapping sleeves shall be cast iron and mechanical joint, as manufactured
Tapping Sleeve                      by Mueller Company Model No. H687 or A 2360-16 (resilient wedge valve).
                                    No alternates allows.
Trench Backfill                     CA-6 crushed gravel, in accordance with Article 704.04 of the Standard
                                    Specifications.
Valve Boxes                         Tyler 664-5 cast iron two-piece box with American-made adopter II rubber
                                    valve box stabilizer. No welded threads allowed.
                                    Pre-cast reinforced concrete in accordance with Article 602.02 and
Valve Vault Frame: And Lid          743.01 of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer. Valve Vaults
                                    shall be provided with steps.
                                    Water main fittings shall be ductile iron mechanical joint in accordance
Water Main Fittings                 with A WWA Standard C-153, and shall be manufactured in the United
                                    States.
                                    Ductile iron pipe, Class 52 in accordance with AWWA Standard C-1 51, C-
Water Main Pipe                     111 and C-104, or the following: CL 150 C909 PVC Pipe with 12 gauge
                                    copper wire or 14” and larger SOR 18 C905 PVC Pipe with 12 gauge copper
                                    wire. Valvco Tracer Wire Access Boxes to be installed as required.
Water Meters                        Purchased through the city.
Water Services                      Water services shall be Type K copper, l” - 2” diameter.
                                    Water saddles shall be manufactured by Smith Blair Model No. 317. No
Water Service Saddle                alternates allowed. Tapping PVC water main shall use all Bronze Saddle
                                    as manufactured by Mueller Company, H-1300 series or approved equal by
                                    the Water Superintendent.
Notes to Table:
All sections referenced above are from the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted
July 1, 1994.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. G)
APPENDIX H: FEES
Fees (To Be Moved to Separate Ordinance at Future Date)
 
Fee Table
§§
157.135 through                            Fee Amount
157.140 Fees
Retained Personnel Fees                     
1. Up to 10 acres                          $2,500
2. Greater than 10 acres, but no more than $250
20 acres
3. 20 or more acres                        $5,000
Filing Fee: preliminary plat               $0.20 per lot with a minimum of $10
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 23, App. H)
CHAPTER 158: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Title and authority
   
158.002   Intent and purpose
   
158.003   Definitions
Use Districts
   
158.015   Zoning districts listed
   
158.016   Zoning maps
   
158.017   New or annexed land
   
158.018   Zoning of streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad
rights-of-way
   
158.019   Boundary lines
   
158.020   General prohibitions
   
158.021   Meeting minimum zoning requirements
   
158.022   Access required
   
158.023   Front setbacks; corner/through lots
   
158.024   Private garages
   
158.025   Lot coverages
General Use Regulations
   
158.040   Scope of regulations
   
158.041   Permits
   
158.042   Building height, bulk and lot coverages
   
158.043   Lot area and dimension
   
158.044   Location of buildings
   
158.045   Buildings under construction
   
158.046   Buildings on a zoning lot
   
158.047   Rezoning of public and semi-public areas
   
158.048   Vision clearance, corner lots
   
158.049   Regulation of space and density of residential dwelling units
   
158.050   Home occupations
   
158.051   Fences, shrubs, hedges and decorative structures
   
158.052   Yard and building setback exceptions
   
158.053   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles
   
158.054   Outside display, sales and storage special permit
   
158.055   Use of commercial truck trailers and railroad cars for storage
   
158.056   Refuse containers
   
158.057   Determination of similar and compatible uses
Nonconforming Buildings and Uses
   
158.070   Purpose
   
158.071   Nonconforming lots
   
158.072   Residential districts
   
158.073   Business, ORI and manufacturing districts
   
158.074   Two or more lots in common ownership
   
158.075   Nonconforming structures
   
158.076   Nonconforming uses occupying a structure
   
158.077   Nonconforming use of land
Accessory Buildings, Structures and Uses
   
158.090   Uses permitted as accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
158.091   Location of accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
158.092   Construction of accessory buildings and structures
   
158.093   Number, height and size of accessory buildings and structures
   
158.094   Distance between accessory buildings or structures
   
158.095   Regulations for specific accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
158.096   Wireless telecommunications towers and antennas regulations
   
158.097   Antennas in residential zoning districts
   
158.098   Antennas in business and manufacturing districts
   
158.099   Amateur radio facilities; surface areas
   
158.100   Additional antenna regulations in zoning districts
   
158.101   Nonconforming accessory buildings, structures and uses
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
158.115   Purpose
   
158.116   General provisions for parking and loading
   
158.117   Additional regulations, parking
   
158.118   Location of parking areas
   
158.119   Off-street loading and unloading
   
158.120   Formulas for off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
158.121   Number of parking and loading spaces required
   
158.122   Additional parking regulations
Wireless Telecommunications Towers and Antennas
   
158.135   Purpose
   
158.136   Definitions
   
158.137   Applicability
   
158.138   General requirements
   
158.139   Permitted uses
   
158.140   Administratively approved uses
   
158.141   Special use permits
   
158.142   Buildings or other equipment storage
   
158.143   Removal of abandoned antennas and towers
   
158.144   Nonconforming uses
Residential/Agricultural Districts
   
158.155   Purpose
   
158.156   ER Estate Residential District
   
158.157   R-1 One-Family District
   
158.158   R-2 One-Family District
   
158.159   R-3 One-Family District
   
158.160   R-5 Multiple-Family District
   
158.161   AT Agricultural Transition District
Business Districts
   
158.175   Purpose
   
158.176   B-1 Central Business District
   
158.177   B-2 General Business District
   
158.178   B-3 Regional Shopping District
   
158.179   BP Business Park District
ORI Office Research and Light Industrial District
   
158.190   Purpose
   
158.191   Use restrictions
   
158.192   Lot and building requirements
   
158.193   Permitted uses
   
158.194   Special uses
Manufacturing District
   
158.205   Purpose
   
158.206   Use restrictions
   
158.207   Lot and building requirements
   
158.208   Permitted uses
   
158.209   Special uses
Performance Standards
   
158.220   Purpose
   
158.221   Noise
   
158.222   Air pollution
   
158.223   Water pollution
   
158.224   Open burning
   
158.225   Toxic or noxious matter
   
158.226   Odors
   
158.227   Fire and explosive hazards
   
158.228   Vibration
   
158.229   Glare or heat
Special Uses
   
158.240   Purpose
   
158.241   General requirements
   
158.242   Standards for special uses
   
158.243   Motor vehicle special uses
   
158.244   Motor vehicle service stations
   
158.245   Kennels
   
158.246   Rest homes, nursing homes
   
158.247   Group homes
   
158.248   Earth materials extraction, processing, site reclamation and related
operations
   
158.249   Adult businesses
   
158.250   Existing solar farms
   
158.251   Adult-use cannabis business establishments
   
158.252   Conditions of approval
Planned Development
   
158.265   Purpose
   
158.266   Where permitted
   
158.267   Minimum area
   
158.268   Required sewer and water
   
158.269   Procedure, application and referral
   
158.270   Preliminary application for development plan
   
158.271   Planned development final approval
   
158.272   General standards
   
158.273   Bulk regulations
   
158.274   Approval of the development plan
   
158.275   Time limit
   
158.276   Minor modification of plans
   
158.277   Performance
Administration
   
158.290   Zoning Administrator
   
158.291   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
158.292   Certificate of appropriateness
   
158.293   Continuance of existing uses
   
158.294   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
158.295   Variations and standards for variations
   
158.296   Special uses and standards for special uses
   
158.297   Text amendments and standards for text amendments
   
158.298   Re-zonings; map amendments and standards for re-zonings
   
158.299   Conditions
   
158.300   City Council action
   
158.301   Change of zoning
   
158.302   Implementation of variations/special uses
   
158.303   Revocation of variations/special uses
   
158.304   Public hearing requirements
   
158.305   Written protests
   
158.306   Hearing Officer alternative process
   
158.307   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
158.308   Fees
   
158.309   Validity
   
158.310   When effective
 
   
158.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 158.001 TITLE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Code
of the City of Marengo, McHenry County, Illinois. For the purposes of this code
and other documents, alternate terms and titles such as “city zoning code,”
“city zoning regulations,” “
Chapter 158 of the Marengo Municipal Code,” the formerly-used term “city’s
zoning ordinance” and similar designations shall be deemed synonymous. Within
this chapter, the terms “code” and “chapter” are used to refer to this “zoning
code” unless otherwise defined. The zoning code and any subsequent amendments
thereto may be published separately from the city’s municipal code, and any
such publication shall be deemed to be incorporated into the city’s municipal
code by reference and to be deemed in full force and effect.
   (B)   Authority. This chapter is adopted under authority vested in the city
under the provisions of the state municipal code (Chapter 65 of the state
compiled statutes, 65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq., as amended).
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 1) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of the buildings, structures and land for residences, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential business
and manufacturing areas within the city and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings, necessary to provide adequate light
and air and to protect the public health;
   (F)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   (G)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   (H)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning district;
   (I)   To prevent additions to, or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   (J)   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   (K)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (L)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   (M)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
   (N)   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
   (O)   To clearly and concisely explain the procedures for obtaining
variances, special use permits, amendments and other zoning processes; and
   (P)   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 2) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
whether capitalized or not, used in the present tense shall include the past
and future tenses, and words used in the future tense shall include the present
tense; words used in the singular number shall include the plural number; words
used in the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the
word “building” shall include the word “structure” and the word “lot” shall
include the word “plot”; the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory, while
the word “may” is permissive; and the words “zone,” “district” or “zoning
district” may be used interchangeably. Definitions in Title I of this code are
applicable to this chapter. Unless indicated otherwise, definitions are not
case sensitive.
   ABANDONED. To give up one’s right or interest in property.
   ABUTTING. Having a common lot line or district line.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A subordinate building, structure or
use which is located on the same lot on which the principal building or use is
situated or occurs, and which is customary and incidental to the conduct of the
primary use of such building or the primary use on the lot, when permitted by
district regulations.
   ACCESS. The ability to ingress and/or egress from a public roadway.
   ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing
vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading area.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more
which has not been subdivided by metes and bounds or platted.
   ADDITION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction or removal of any structure.
   ADULT BUSINESS. As defined in
Chapter 113.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization or processor, infuser
organization or infuser, dispensing organization or transporting organization
or transporter.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to cultivate,
dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization or processor, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act
101-0027, being 410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as
it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of Financial
and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be
amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the State Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Pub. Act 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   AIRPORT OR AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD. Any landing area, runway or other
facility (including heliports), designed, used or intended to be used either
publicly or privately by any person or persons for the landing and taking off
of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down
areas, hangars and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access/egress from parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public way which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the erection,
construction, reconstruction or removal of any structure.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference), properly effected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
   ANTENNA. An arrangement of wires, metal rods or similar materials used for
the transmission and or reception of electromagnetic waves, to include
satellite dishes and communication towers.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any structure utilized for the principal purpose
of supporting a satellite dish antenna.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen, bath and toilet facilities, permanently installed, must
always be included for each APARTMENT.
   ARCADE. Any establishment displaying for public patronage or keeping for
operation four or more amusement devices, including, but not limited to, pool
tables, foosball tables, air hockey tables, mechanical rides for children,
electronic games and shooting gallery type games.
   ASPHALT. A mixture of petroleum by-products and gravel used for paving to
form a smooth, permanent surface; ASPHALTIC CONCRETE does not mean “oil and
chip.”
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, ATTACHED means having a common wall and/
or a common roof.
   AUTOMOBILE CAR WASH/LAUNDRY. A building or portion thereof where automobiles
are washed by mechanical device.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn
or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service automobiles, but not including any operation specified under AUTOMOBILE
REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES LOT. A lot arranged, designed or used for the storage and
display for sale of any motor vehicle, including trucks or any type of trailer,
provided that the trailer is unoccupied and where repair work as an accessory
use is done to automobiles or trailers.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, stored only in
underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of
automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and
including minor accessories and services for automobiles; but not including
major automobile repairs; and including washing of automobiles where a
mechanical device is employed. When the dispensing, sale or offering for sale
of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage. AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS
shall not include sale or storage of junkers or junk yards as defined herein.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where one or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicle or parts thereof, and including any used farm
vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any
other goods, articles or merchandise.
   AWNING. A roof like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall
of a building or overhangs the public way.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground. Where more than one-half of its height
is above the established curb level or above the average level of the adjoining
ground where curb level has not been established, a BASEMENT shall be counted
as a story for purposes of height measurement.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. As defined in 50 ILCS 820/2, an owner-occupied dwelling
unit having not more than five guest rooms where lodging, with or without
meals, is provided to the public for compensation.
   BEDROOM. Any room which may be used for bedroom purposes, such as a den,
study, ten feet or extra room located on any floor in a dwelling unit which is
not clearly identified for some specific purpose such as a kitchen (one per
unit), dining room (one per unit), living room (one per unit), bathroom(s) and
family room (one per unit).
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to announce church services, or to display court or other
public office notices or signs offering the sale or lease of the premises on
which the sign is located.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or
shore lines of waterways or a corporate boundary line of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to four or more persons, but not more than 12, who
are not members of the keeper’s family.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Planning and Zoning Commission, and may also be
referred to as the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   BUFFER STRIP. An area of land, undeveloped except for landscaping, fences
and the like, used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious
effects of the use on the adjacent lot.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   BUILDING. Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to
the land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space
or by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings; and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally
accessible for human use, such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain
elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking towers and other similar structures, are
not considered as BUILDINGS.
   BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED. A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal exit or entrance doors.
   BUILDING FRONT. The portion of a building where the primary building
entrance is located. Where more than one primary building entrance is provided,
the BUILDING FRONT shall be the portion of the building facing toward the
street to which the legal address has been assigned. Corner lots shall have
only one BUILDING FRONT. The legal address of a building on a corner lot shall
be determined by factors including, but not limited to: orientation of
building, location of driveway and placement of mailbox.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured at the established grade on
the front side of the building to the highest point of the roof in the case of
a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided, that where
buildings are set back from the street line, the height of the building may be
measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of
the building.
   BUILDING, NONCONFORMING. Any building which does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter prescribing the maximum floor area ratio, required
yards, coverage, height and setbacks, minimum required spacing between
buildings on a single lot and minimum required usable open space for the
district in which such building is located.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building within which the principal use of the zoning
lot is conducted.
   BUILDING LINE or BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line or lines on the horizontal
surface of a lot, parallel or nearly parallel to the front, side and rear lot
lines and located at a distance prescribed by the yard regulations and beyond
which no portion of a building or structure may extend as provided for in this
chapter.
   BULK. The term used to describe the size and mutual relationships of
buildings and other structures, as to size, height, coverage, shape, location
of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of streets, to
other walls of the same building and to other buildings or structures and to
all open spaces relating to the building or structure.
   BUSINESS PARK. A collection of lots and/or buildings wherein the principal
land use is commercial in nature.
   BUS LOT. Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
   CANOPY. A roof-like structure similar to an awning, except that it cannot be
raised or retracted to a position against the building.
   CARTAGE, LOCAL. Pick-up and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by
motor truck within and not exceeding 15 miles of the city.
   CELLAR. A cellar is a story having more than one-half of its height below
the curb level or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR
shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the animal or
human dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; and
      (3)   The new centerline whenever a road has been relocated.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate issued by the Historic
Preservation Commission authorizing plans for alterations, construction,
removal or demolition of a landmark or site within a designated historic
preservation district.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign which has provision for changing the message
thereon either manually or electronically.
   CHURCH. A building primarily used for religious worship. The word CHURCH
shall include, but not be limited to, chapel, temple, synagogue and mosque.
   CLINIC or MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER. An establishment where patients are
admitted for special study and treatment by one or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates, practicing medicine together.
   CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. A nonprofit association of persons, who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or
portion thereof.
   COMMERCIAL USE ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a vehicle used in a ride sharing
arrangement when being used for that purpose or a recreational vehicle not
being used commercially. In any event, any vehicle that is licensed for a gross
weight, including vehicle and cargo, of 8,001 pounds or more, or any vehicle
used in a commercial enterprise and containing lettering or logo on the vehicle
body advertising that commercial enterprise, shall be considered a COMMERCIAL
VEHICLE.
   COMMISSION. The Building and Zoning Commission of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The adopted comprehensive plan of the city, and as
amended from time to time.
   CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   CORNER SIDE YARD. The side yard adjacent to a street or private road
extending from the front yard building setback line to the rear lot line.
   CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legally binding order issued by the Zoning
Administrator in accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect
compliance with this chapter.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one
street, the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been
established, the mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building
shall be considered the CURB LEVEL.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any child care facility operated for profit or not-for-
profit, which regularly provides day care for minor children and which must be
licensed to render such day care by the State Department of Children and Family
Services.
   DECK. An exterior floor system supported on at least two opposing sides by
an adjoining structure and/or posts, piers or other independent supports.
   DECORATIVE STRUCTURE. Any embellishment or ornamental object that is built
or placed in a yard, such as a planter, lighting fixture or fountain, which is
less than eight feet in height, is accessory to the principal structure on the
lot and is associated with the landscaping on the lot.
   DESIGN GUIDELINE. A standard of appropriate alteration or construction
activity that will preserve the historic and architectural character of a
structure or area.
   DETACHED. As applied to buildings, DETACHED means surrounded by yards on the
same lot as the building.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to lot depth, lot width and total lot area.
   DOGHOUSE. An exterior shelter that does not exceed four feet in height and
25 square feet in floor area or lot coverage for the exclusive use of
domesticated canine animals containing walls, roof, floor and one opening for
ingress and egress of the canine animals.
   DOOR. Full, complete, non-transparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   DRIVE-IN (THROUGH) RESTAURANT. Any food service establishment or restaurant
or similar place in which food or drink is for sale on the premises or
elsewhere in which service is received in an automobile or at central service
windows. The term DRIVE-IN shall apply to any food service establishment other
than cafeterias, in which service is made to a customer at a location other
than tables on the premises intended for use by the customer for eating.
   DRIVE-IN THEATER. A tract of land developed with facilities for projecting
motion pictures on an outdoor screen for viewing by patrons in automobiles
parked on the premises.
   DRIVEWAY. A paved area on private property that intersects with the roadway
of a public street and is intended to provide vehicle access from the public
roadway to a private property.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer
or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy,
including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units and multiple-
family dwelling units, but not including hotels, boarding or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each
other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy
by one family and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
   DWELLING, ROW-PARTY WALL. A row of two to eight attached, one-family, party-
wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half stories in height, nor more than
two rooms in depth measured from the building line.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A unit within a dwelling, entirely separated from any other
unit within said dwelling, designed for occupancy by one family.
   EASEMENT. Land that has been designated by lawful agreement between the
owner of such land and another person or entity for a specified use only by
such person or entity.
   EAVE. The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
building.
   ENCLOSED. See BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. To build, construct.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
chapter.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE. The architectural and general composition
of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the composition,
color and texture of the building material and the type, design and character
of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and appurtenant elements.
   FAMILY. One of the following, except as otherwise provided herein:
      (1)   Two or more individuals related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption (including foster children), together with domestic servants and not
more than two gratuitous guests, living as a single, not-for-profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit;
      (2)   (a)   Three or fewer individuals not related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption (including foster children), living as a single, not-for-profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit; and
         (b)   Servants or guests residing with said family shall be included
in the unrelated person attained by this definition and shall not be in
addition thereto.
      (3)   No more than two individuals who are not necessarily related to
each other by blood, and their dependents, together with domestic servants and
not more than two gratuitous guests, living as a single, not-for-profit
housekeeping unit occupying a dwelling unit.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FENCE. A free-standing structure of metal, masonry, wood or other solid
durable material composed of natural, manufactured or processed materials, or
any combination thereof, not part of any building, which rests on a raised
platform or is supported by posts on or partially buried in the ground, and is
used to confine, screen, partition, enclose, visually define or otherwise
create a form of barrier for an area. A FENCE is a structure forming a barrier
above a raised platform or at grade level between lots, between a lot and a
street or other public right-of-way, or between portions of a lot or lots. A
FENCE may be solid or partially permeable to light and air, and therefore a
wall shall be deemed to constitute a FENCE. A hedge or series of shrubs densely
planted in such a fashion so as to create a barrier sharing similar
characteristics of a FENCE shall also be deemed to constitute a FENCE.
   FENCE, DECORATIVE. Any fence installed only as an ornamental embellishment
at a lot corner or adjacent to a street which may include associated plantings
and/or other landscape features.
   FENCE, MARKETING. Any fence installed only as an ornamental embellishment at
a lot corner or adjacent to a street which may include associated plantings
and/or other landscape features, which has been installed by a developer of a
subdivision with the consent of the city as a temporary structure for purposes
of assisting in marketing the development.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several
floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA
includes living areas, halls, closets, stairwells, space devoted to mechanical
equipment and enclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The gross floor area of the building or buildings on
the zoning lot divided by the area of such zoning lot; or in the case of a
planned development, by the net site area.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   FOUNDATION, PERMANENT. A closed perimeter formation consisting of materials
such as concrete or concrete block which extends into the ground below the
frost line.
   GAME AREA. Any building or portion thereof, where three or more amusement
devices are located in an area or areas under the leasehold or ownership
control of one person. For the purpose of this definition, an AREA includes all
common walkways, malls and pedestrian thoroughfares in any building or series
of buildings connected by party walls. The presence of less than three such
devices shall not be included in this definition if such devices are located
wholly within an establishment and are accessory to the principal use.
   GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK. Any building used or intended to be used for the
storage of three or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses, or a building which is used or intended
to be used for the storage of motor trucks, truck trailers, tractors and
commercial vehicles exceeding one and one-half ton capacity.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck trailers and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half ton capacity.
   GROUP HOME. A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively permanent basis
in a family-like environment by unrelated persons with disabilities. Paid
professional support staff, provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with
the residents on a 24-hour basis, or present whenever residents are present at
the dwelling, shall be required, unless a special use permit is issued.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the principal building for use by temporary guests of
the occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities
nor be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling unit.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. An area designated by an ordinance of the
City Council and which may contain within definable geographic boundaries one
or more designated landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other
properties or structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall
visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the
designated HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, professional or commercial activity that is
conducted in whole or in part in a dwelling unit, is clearly incidental,
secondary and subordinate to the principal residential use of the dwelling
unit, and does not change the essential residential character of such dwelling
unit.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An institution open to the public in which patients
or injured persons are given medical or surgical care, or for the care of
contagious diseases or incurable patients.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building in which more than five rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests,
with no provisions in said rooms for cooking in any individual room or suite.
   HOUSEHOLDER. The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or
lessee thereof.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACES. All buildings, structures, parking lots and facilities,
sidewalks, driveways and service drives, graveled areas, paved recreational
areas and other elements that do not readily absorb or retain rainwater.
   INTENSITY. To increase the level or degree of use.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   JUNK YARD. The use of more than 200 square feet of any lot where waste,
scrap metal, paper, rags or similar materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto and building
wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely within a
completely enclosed building.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more
than five dogs, cats or other household domestic animals over four months of
age are kept or on which more than two such animals are boarded for
compensation or kept for sale.
   LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL. A place devoted to experimental study such as
testing and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not
included within this definition.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site which has been designated as a
“Landmark” by an ordinance of the City Council, pursuant to procedures
prescribed herein, that is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration and
preservation because of its historic and/or architectural significance.
   LINE OF BUILDING. For measuring yards, a line parallel to the nearest lot
line drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to
such lot line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to
extend into a yard.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open, hard surfaced area of land
other than a street or public way, the principle use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractor trailers to avoid
undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space shall
be not less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 15 feet in vertical
clearance, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with not more than five guest rooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter, including one or more principal buildings and accessory
buildings or structures as permitted by the city, yards and open spaces
required in this chapter for off-street parking or loading facilities, and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place. Such parcel of land shall be established by a plat of subdivision
approved by the city and recorded with the County Recorder’s Office. The word
LOT when used alone shall mean a ZONING LOT unless the context of this chapter
clearly indicates otherwise.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public or private street. For a corner lot the owner may elect either street
line as a front lot line for the purposes of orientation of a dwelling or
building thereon, except if the front of the lot is designated on the plat of
subdivision. Notwithstanding the choice of such orientation, a corner lot shall
be deemed to have two front yards for the purposes of establishing setback
requirements. See also BUILDING FRONT.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, through lot or reversed corner
lot.
   LOT LINE or PROPERTY LINE. A line dividing one lot from another, or from a
street or right-of-way, or from any public place.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The front property line of a zoning lot. See LOT FRONTAGE
for additional requirements.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A side lot line common with another lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The lot line or lines other than front or rear lot lines,
except for corner lots, where the side lot line adjacent to a street shall be
deemed a front lot line for the purposes of establishing setback requirements.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot properly platted and recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the lot depth at the building setback line. However, for lots
where the side lot lines are not parallel, the established LOT WIDTH shall be
the average of the front and rear lot widths, where the lot width is the length
of a straight line between the points at which the required building setback
line intersects the side lot lines.
   LOT, ZONING. See ZONING LOT.
   MANUFACTURE. The making of anything by an agency or process.
   MARQUEE or CANOPY. A roof-like structure of a permanent nature which
projects from the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
   MEAN WATER LINE. The line at which the water usually stands when free from
disturbing causes, including, but not limited to, snow melt and rainfall.
   MEDICAL OFFICE. An establishment where human patients, not animals or pets,
are admitted for diagnosis and treatment by licensed physicians, medical
practitioners and professional associates, who may utilize jointly the same
reception area, medical supply, laboratory, auto parking and other physical
accommodations.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL, PRIVATE. A building in which freight, brought to
said building by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate
and interstate shipment by motor truck.
   MUNICIPAL CODE. This code.
   MUNICIPAL FACILITIES. Any building, structure or appurtenance thereto, open
space or parcel of property owned or leased by the city.
   NOAA. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a
use or lawfully established at the time of the adoption of this chapter or
amendments hereto, which does not conform after the passage of this chapter or
amendments hereto with the use regulations of this chapter.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Matter which is capable of causing injury or illness to
living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effects to the health of
the psychological, social or economic well-being of humans.
   NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A private home for the care of children or the
aged or inform, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness injuries or for surgical
care.
   NURSERY, DAY. See DAY CARE CENTER herein.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An institution providing day care service for children from
four to six years of age.
   OCTAVE BAND. A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves
in order to classify sound according to pitch.
   OPEN SPACE. Includes all public and private areas set aside from development
in order to provide for recreational or conservation purposes, which may be
either passive or active uses and which are designated due to factors,
including, but not limited to, natural features worthy of protection or
preservation, site significance or recreational opportunities.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, material,
merchandise or vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours.
   PARCEL DELIVERY STATION. A building in which commodities, sold at retail
within the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for
delivery to retail customers located within the area.
   PARK. An open space area with recreational facilities and related accessory
structures, including, but not limited to, playground equipment, picnic
shelters, paths/trails, benches, tennis or basketball courts, playing fields,
fences and parking lots.
   PARKING. The stationary placement of any vehicle or equipment for a
continuous period of less than 48 hours.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard-surfaced area of land, other than a
street or public way, designed, arranged and made available for the parking of
private passenger vehicles only of occupants and their guests of the building
or buildings for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the temporary storage of passenger
automobiles and commercial vehicles under 1’1’1-ton capacity, and available to
the public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients or
customers.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area of
not less than 162 square feet eight and one-half feet by 19 feet, exclusive of
access drives or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas, for the
storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicles under 1Y2-ton
capacity.
   PAVED SURFACE. Includes concrete, bituminous, brick pavers or other
impervious or pervious material commonly used for a finish surface material of
a parking or driveway area.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards or glare to be moved or
removed.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which is developed as a unit under
single ownership or control which includes two or more principal buildings, and
which may not completely conform to all of the regulations of the district in
which it is located. The development of a PLANNED DEVELOPMENT shall be
according to regulations as hereinafter set forth.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City Planning and Zoning Commission. Any
reference to COMMISSION in this chapter shall also mean the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
   PLAY EQUIPMENT. A free-standing accessory structure, exclusively for the use
of children, including, but not limited to, swing sets, “jungle gyms” and
similar recreational structures.
   PLAYHOUSE. A free-standing accessory building, whether permanent or
portable, fully or mostly enclosed with walls, roof, window(s) and a door,
exclusively for the use of children. For the purpose of this definition, a
treehouse shall be deemed to be equivalent to a PLAYHOUSE.
   PLOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting out from the wall or walls of a
main structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department, duly
authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation or water. A PUBLIC UTILITY shall
not include solar farms.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities
for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations,
train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water
towers.
   RECONSTRUCT. As applied to nonconforming structures, RECONSTRUCT means to
rebuild after partial or total destruction.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A term encompassing any type of vehicle used primarily
for recreational pleasure. Examples are, but not limited to, travel trailers,
motor homes, boats and the like.
      (1)   CAMPER TRAILER (POP-UP) is a structure designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, constructed
with integral wheels to make it mobile and/or towable by a motor vehicle, not
to exceed 24 feet in length and five feet six inches in height in a collapsed
position.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME is a portable dwelling designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle not to exceed 40 feet in length and
12 feet in height.
      (3)   PICKUP CAMPER is a structure designed primarily to be mounted on a
pickup or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use.
      (4)   SNOWMOBILES are considered RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
      (5)   TRAVEL TRAILER is a structure designed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, constructed with integral
wheels to make it mobile and/or towable by a motor vehicle, not to exceed eight
feet in width and a body length of 35 feet.
      (6)   WATERCRAFT is any unit that is used for water travel or pleasure,
35 feet or less in length, but not to exceed 12 feet in height, either mounted
on a boat trailer or unmounted; also boat trailer without boat mounted.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The removal of the principal buildings or structures from
land and/or the construction or erection of other principal buildings or
structures thereon, or the development of vacant properties.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/sub-divider has
dedicated to the city or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area of the Ringelmann Chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission.
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. Any parabolic, dish-type, circular, rectangular,
concave, convex or similarly-shaped structure, which is solid or open-web in
construction, designed for receiving communications, radio, television, data or
other signals from a satellite or other sources, or for transmitting such
signals to a receiving station, or both. For the purposes of this definition, a
MINIATURE SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA shall mean any satellite dish antenna that has
a diameter or width of one meter (approximately 39 inches) or less, and a
REGULAR SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA shall mean any satellite dish antenna that has a
diameter or width of more than one meter.
   SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences and the like used as a means
of visual and noise control.
   SELF-STORAGE, MINI WAREHOUSE. A building or buildings in a controlled access
area that contain varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized and controlled
access stalls or lockers for the storage of a customer’s goods or wares.
   SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SETBACK. The horizontal distance between the building or structure and the
lot line.
   SETBACK LINE, BUILDING. See BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   SHED. A fully or mostly enclosed accessory building or structure, also known
as a “storage shed,” utility shed or “tool room,” that is used for sheltered
storage of personal property pertaining to the principal building to which the
shed is accessory.
   SMOKE UNITS. This term represents the number obtained by multiplying the
smoke density in Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the
purpose of this chart, Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every
minute during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed; and the various products are added
together to give the total number of SMOKE UNITS observed during the total
period under observation.
   SOLAR FARM. A solar energy system or systems existing within the city prior
to July 10, 2023, consisting of one or more solar panels which is or are
ground-mounted, but which is or are not attached to another structure or
building, and which shall operate for a term not to exceed 40 years.
   SPECIAL USE. A use, either public or private, of land or buildings or both,
which because of its unique characteristics, cannot properly be classified as a
permitted use in any particular zoning district or districts, and which, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, after due consideration in each
case of the impact of such use upon adjoining properties and of the need or
appropriateness for the particular use at the particular location, such special
use may or may not be granted, and if granted, may be subject to conditions or
restrictions.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator to
halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter or other ordinances.
   STORAGE. The stationary placement of any vehicle or equipment for a
continuous period of 48 hours or more, and/or for which further evidence of
storage intent may include, but is not limited to, covering said vehicle or
equipment with a tarp or other type of cover, failure to keep tires inflated,
removal of tires and allowing said vehicle or equipment to be in or fall into a
state of disrepair by any means that renders it incapable of being driven,
operated or moved.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of
a STORY exceeding 14 feet in height shall be considered as an additional STORY
for each 14 feet or fraction thereof.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip or mansard roof,
the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
than four feet above the finished floor of such story.
   STREET. A public way other than an alley.
   STREET LINE. A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel, from a
street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change other than incidental repairs which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which required location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground.
   TANNING SALON. A room or booth which houses ultraviolet lamps or products
containing such lamps intended to induce skin tanning through the irradiation
of any part of the human body for cosmetic or non-medical related purposes.
   TAVERN. A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and valid for not more than one year, which allows the occupation
of a temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
   TERRACE, OPEN. A level and rather narrow plane or platform, which for the
purpose of this chapter, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the
principal structure and which is constructed not more than four feet in height
above the average level of the adjoining ground.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which accommodations are provided or offered for
transient guests.
   TRAILER, TRAILER HOUSE or MOBILE HOME. A vehicle without motored power,
designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation or
for carrying persons and property, including a trailer coach or house trailer
or mobile homes.
   TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors, truck trailers and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading and which exceed one and one-half tons
in capacity.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged
or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
   USED CAR LOT. A zoning lot on which used or new cars, trailers or trucks are
displayed for sale or trade.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
   VARIATION. A divergence from bulk, setback, height, parking and loading, or
other regulatory elements of this chapter.
   VEHICLE, NON-PASSENGER. A motor vehicle eight feet or more in overall height
or 22 feet or more in overall length and any vehicle or trailer except
recreational vehicles and equipment not customary or incidental to the use of
occupancy of residential properties, such as, but not limited to: dump trucks
step vans; cargo trucks; tow trucks; semi-trailer tractors; fire trucks; boom
trucks; tank trucks; hearses; livery vehicles, such as taxis and limousines;
and the like.
   VEHICLE, PASSENGER. Any motor vehicle licensed for on-street use measuring
less than eight feet in overall height and less than 22 feet in overall length
designed and commonly used for personal or work related day-to-day
transportation purposes carrying not more than 15 persons, including the
driver. A PASSENGER VEHICLE includes automobiles, sport utility vehicles
(SUVs), vans and pick-up trucks with a manufacturer’s nominal rating carrying
capacity of one ton or less and commonly known as a pick-up truck, and a van
designed with no barrier separation between the operator area and the remainder
of the cargo carrying area with a manufacturer’s nominal rating carrying
capacity of one ton or less. PASSENGER VEHICLES shall not include buses,
motorcycles, motorized bicycles, motorized foot scooters, as well as non-
passenger vehicles, school buses, trailers, recreational equipment or
recreational vehicles as defined by the section. A handicap equipment van used
for personal purposes shall be deemed a PASSENGER VEHICLE regardless of the
height.
   YARD. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or
group of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, and which extends along
a lot line and at a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which the zoning lot is located. In measuring a yard for the
purpose of determining the depth of a front yard, the width of a side yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and the principal building shall be used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard, or situated in between the front yard and the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer designated by the city as the person
responsible for administering and enforcing the requirements of this chapter.
(See § 158.290.)
   ZONING CODE. The City of Marengo Zoning Code, which is Chapter 158 of this
code.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A division of the geographic area of the city, as shown on
the zoning map, wherein the character and intensity of land use is regulated by
the terms of this chapter. Also, a geographical area for which the regulations
governing uses, setback and bulk requirements and other conditions of uses are
uniform as provided for in this chapter. The terms DISTRICT, USE DISTRICT and
ZONE are deemed synonymous.
   ZONING LOT. A plot of ground, made up of one or more parcels, which is or
may be occupied by a use, building or buildings, including the open spaces
required by this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 3) (Ord. 03-1-8, passed - -; Ord. 08-1-4, passed -
-; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 23-7-2, passed 7-10-2023)
**** USE DISTRICTS ****
§ 158.015 ZONING DISTRICTS LISTED.
   In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter, the city
is hereby divided into the following districts.
B-1 Central Business District
B-2 General Business District
B-3 Regional Shopping District
BP  Business Park District
ER  Estate Residential District
M   Manufacturing District
ORI Office, Research and Light Industrial District
R-1 Single-Family District
R-2 Single-Family District
R-3 Single-Family District
R-5 Multiple-Family District
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.01) (Ord. 06-12-3, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002)
§ 158.016 ZONING MAPS.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown
upon the zoning map which is hereby incorporated into this chapter. The zoning
map, together with all notations references and other information shown thereon
and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this chapter and shall have the
same force and effect as if the zoning map together with all notations
references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth and
described herein.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.017 NEW OR ANNEXED LAND.
   Submerged land heretofore reclaimed or which may be reclaimed hereafter and
land heretofore annexed or which may be annexed to the city hereafter and which
is not shown on the zoning map made a part of this chapter which has been zoned
as agricultural land pursuant to the County Zoning Ordinance shall be
classified in the AT Agricultural Transition District until such time as the
City Council designates the permitted use of the land in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Land which may be annexed to the city that is not
zoned agricultural under the County Zoning Ordinance shall be classified ER
Estate Residential District until such time as the City Council designates the
permitted use of the land in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.018 ZONING OF STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS, WATERWAYS AND RAILROAD
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad rights-of-way, if
not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone
as the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways,
waterways and railroad rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley,
public way or railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary the zoning of
such areas unless otherwise specifically designated shall be deemed to be the
same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.019 BOUNDARY LINES.
   Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any use district as
shown on the zoning maps incorporated herein the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets
alleys or similar rights-of-way they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof;
   (B)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries; and
   (C)   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record at the effective date
of this chapter is divided by a district boundary line the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the less restricted district; provided, that this
construction shall not apply if it increases the area of the less restricted
portion of the lot by more than 20%.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.020 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied, enlarged,
altered, relocated or reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter. Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be used, occupied or
developed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.021 MEETING MINIMUM ZONING REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically provided elsewhere in this chapter, every lot must
meet the minimum dimensions and minimum setback requirements of the district in
which it is located independent of counting any portion of an abutting lot.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.022 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to a public street or a private street that
conforms to the standards set forth in Chapter 157.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.023 FRONT SETBACKS; CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.024 PRIVATE GARAGES.
   Private garages or carports are not to exceed 15 feet, six inches in height,
nor to exceed the following capacities or size:
   (A)   For single-family residence: three-car garage maximum with 700 square
feet in area for a detached or free-standing garage and either the width or
length is limited to 32 lineal feet;
   (B)   For multiple-family residence: two-car garage per dwelling unit,
maximum 550 square feet; and
   (C)   Hold no more than three cars.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.10) (Ord. 04-2-1, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002)
§ 158.025 LOT COVERAGES.
   (A)   Generally. The maintenance of yards, courts and other open space and
minimum lot area legally required for a building shall be a continuing
obligation of the owner of such building or the property on which it is located
as long as the building is in existence. Furthermore, no legally required
yards, courts or other open space or minimum lot area allocated to any building
shall by virtue of change of ownership or for any other reason be used to
satisfy yard, court, open space or minimum lot area requirement for any other
building.
   (B)   Division of zoning lots. No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be
divided into two or more zoning lots unless all improved zoning lots resulting
from each such division conform with all the applicable bulk regulations of the
zoning district in which the property is located.
   (C)   Location of required open space. All yards, courts and other open
spaces allocated to a building or dwelling shall be located on the same zoning
lot as such building or dwelling group.
   (D)   Required yards for existing buildings. No yards now or hereafter
provided for a building existing on the effective date of this subchapter shall
subsequently be reduced below or further reduced below if already less than the
minimum yard requirements of this chapter for equivalent new construction
without a variance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 4.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** GENERAL USE REGULATIONS ****
§ 158.040 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   All buildings and structures erected hereafter, all uses of land, structures
or buildings established hereafter, all structural alterations, conversions,
reconstructions or relocations of existing structures or buildings occurring
hereafter, and all enlargements of, additions to or intensifications of
existing uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this
chapter which are applicable to the districts in which such buildings,
structures, uses or land shall be located, and no building, structure, use or
land may be used other than that which is permitted in the district in which
the building, structure, use or land is located.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.041 PERMITS.
   No application for a building permit or other permit or license, or for a
certificate of occupancy, shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator and no
permit or license shall be issued by any other city department which would
authorize the use or change in use of any land or building contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, or the erection, moving, alteration, enlargement or
occupancy of any building designed or intended to be used for a purpose or in a
manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.042 BUILDING HEIGHT, BULK AND LOT COVERAGES.
   (A)   (1)   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, relocated or
structurally altered so as to have a greater height, a higher ratio of lot
coverage or smaller open space about it than permissible under the limitations
set forth herein for the district in which such building is located, except
that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers,
stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts and necessary mechanical appurtenances,
shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height provisions when erected in
accordance with all other ordinances of the city.
      (2)   For the purposes of establishing height of a building, the
measurement shall begin at the established grade on the front side of the
building.
   (B)   No space allocated to a building or dwelling group for the purpose of
complying with the side, rear or front yard, or court or other open space or
lot area requirements of this chapter, shall thereafter, by reason of change in
ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy the yard, court, open
space or lot area requirements of any other building or dwelling group.
   (C)   No usable open space or off-street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter for any building be reduced below the minimum
requirements hereinafter set forth for usable open space, parking space or
loading space, nor further reduced if already less than minimum requirements.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.043 LOT AREA AND DIMENSION.
   When two or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area and
dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.044 LOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public
street or permanent easement of access to a public street, which easement shall
have a minimum width of 25 feet, unless an easement of lesser width was of
record prior to the adoption of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.045 BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building or structure upon which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this chapter, or any
subsequent amendment thereto that would affect said plans, construction or use,
provided, however, that construction is begun or the use is begun to be
established within one year from such effective date of adoption or amendment,
and said construction or establishment of use has been diligently carried on to
completion in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which a
building permit or other permit has been issued, and furthermore, may upon
completion be occupied or put into use under a certificate of occupancy or a
certificate of use and compliance for the use for which it was originally
designated. However, such building or establishment of use shall be completed
within one year from the issuance of the building permit or other permit unless
otherwise provided for in the city’s municipal code. Furthermore, such a
building, structure or use shall thereafter be subject to the provisions of §§
158.070 through
158.077.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.046 BUILDINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a zoning lot as herein defined and in no case shall
there be more than one such building on one zoning lot.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.047 REZONING OF PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC AREAS.
   An area indicated on the zoning map as a public park, recreation area,
public school site, cemetery or other similar open space, shall not be used for
any other purpose than that designated and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned to the most restricted adjoining
district until such time as the Mayor and City Council designate a different
classification in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.048 VISION CLEARANCE, CORNER LOTS.
   On corner lots, no building hereafter erected and no planting or other
obstruction to the vision of drivers of motor vehicles shall exceed a height of
three feet above the grade within 25 feet of lot lines which are adjacent to
streets.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.09) (Ord. 08-1-4, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002)
§ 158.049 REGULATION OF SPACE AND DENSITY OF RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNITS.
   No person shall occupy or let to be occupied any dwelling unit, for the
purpose of living therein, unless there is compliance with the requirements of
this section.
   (A)   The maximum occupancy for any dwelling unit shall not exceed the
lesser value of the following requirements.
      (1)   For the first occupant, there shall be at least 1,000 square feet
of habitable floor space. There shall be at least 200 square feet of habitable
floor space for every additional occupant.
      (2)   The total number of persons shall be no more than two times the
number of habitable bedrooms within the dwelling unit.
   (B)   Habitable floor space shall be permitted in a basement only when the
floor is not more than four feet below finished grade level at all exterior
walls containing openings required for natural light and ventilation.
   (C)   No space located more than four feet below grade shall be considered
habitable space, except that a basement recreation or family room, where a
separate living room is provided elsewhere in the dwelling unit, may have a
floor level more than four feet below finished grade level.
   (D)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall contain at least 100
square feet of habitable floor space.
   (E)   Within every dwelling unit, there shall be a bathroom with a flush
water closet in good working condition for each six persons or fraction thereof
living within that dwelling unit.
   (F)   Habitable space shall include a room or enclosed floor space used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding
bathrooms, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries and utility rooms of less than 50
square feet, foyers or communicating corridors, stairways, closets, storage
space and workshops.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.050 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   The conduct of business or commercial activity in dwelling units in
residential zoning districts may be permitted under the provisions of this
section. Home occupations shall be regulated as follows.
   (A)   A home occupation is an accessory use by the occupant(s) of a dwelling
unit in which goods are produced or traded, or services are rendered as an
economic enterprise. Such use shall be clearly incidental or subordinate to the
residential use of a dwelling. Beauty shops, barber shops and massage services
are not considered home occupations.
   (B)   Home occupations do not include garage or yard sales.
   (C)   Home occupations are permitted as an accessory use to a residence only
when all of the following criteria are met.
      (1)   Area of use. Home occupations shall be entirely contained within
the interior of a residence or located in garages or accessory structures on
the site. No visible evidence of the business shall be apparent from the street
nor surrounding area. A home occupation shall use no more than 20% of the total
dwelling unit floor area. Those home occupations which require occasional
meetings using more than 20% of the floor space may be permitted providing such
meetings do not occur more frequently than once a month.
      (2)   Employees. The home occupation shall be conducted by family members
residing on the premises with no assistance from other individuals or groups.
      (3)   Sales, repairs and leasing.
         (a)   Sales. The commercial exchange of tangible goods or other items
constituting a sale between the proprietor of a home occupation and members of
the general public shall not be permitted on the premises of a home occupation.
Members of the general public shall not include persons in the home by prior
individualized invitation
         (b)   Leasing. The exchange of items in a lease agreement between the
proprietor of the home occupation or an assistant and a customer shall not
occur on the premises of a home occupation.
      (4)   Traffic and parking.
         (a)   No parking in the public right-of-way shall occur as a result of
this home occupation except for occasional meetings. If parking for a home
occupation occurs in a manner of frequency causing disturbance to the normal
traffic flow for the neighborhood, the occupation shall be considered a
business best handled in a commercial district rather than as a home
occupation.
         (b)   The appearance of a dwelling as a residence shall not be altered
to the extent that attention is drawn to the structure as a commercial or
business operation. Alterations of building material, size or color, lighting
fixtures or intensity, parking area or any other exterior change should not
cause the structure to lose its residential character nor should it detract
from the residential character of the neighborhood.
      (5)   Nuisance controls.
         (a)   A home occupation shall not create excessive noise, dust or
dirt, heat, smoke, odors, vibration and glare or bright lighting which would be
over and above that created by a single-family residential dwelling. The
production, dumping or storage of combustible or toxic substances shall not be
permitted on site.
         (b)   Additionally, a home occupation shall not create interference or
fluctuations of radio or television reception.
      (6)   Visitation. A home occupation may attract patrons, students or any
business related individuals only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
At any time during the day or evening, the parking standards in this chapter
shall apply to the activity generated by the home occupation, excluding family
day care homes. A home occupation shall not generate more than six arrivals and
six departures per day by vehicles. Family day care operations shall not
generate more than 12 arrivals and 12 departures per day by vehicles. These
standards shall not be construed so as to prohibit occasional group gatherings,
recitals or demonstrations. However, such gatherings shall not occur more
frequently than once per month and must be held within the visitation hours
specified herein.
      (7)   Signage. Signage or other forms of advertising pertaining to the
home occupation may be placed or painted onto the exterior of the residence or
in the yard of a residence. These signs may not exceed two square feet in area.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.051 FENCES, SHRUBS, HEDGES AND DECORATIVE STRUCTURES.
   In order to provide for the maximum safety of persons using the streets,
rights-of-way, sidewalks and other public ways of the city, and to provide for
the maximum enjoyment of the use of property, the following regulations shall
apply to all fences, hedges and similar structures or elements located in the
city.
   (A)   For purposes of minimizing traffic hazards at street intersections by
improving visibility for converging vehicles, obstructions higher than three
feet shall not be permitted to be planted, placed or erected on any corner lot
within the triangular portion of land designated as “restricted area.” This
triangular area shall consist of a portion of land extended from the corner of
the lot 25 feet in either direction.
   (B)   No barbed wire or other sharp pointed fence and no electrically
charged fence shall be erected or maintained except in the industrial district.
In the industrial district barbed wire cannot be lower than six feet from
ground level. This requirement does not apply to agricultural zoned property.
   (C)   No permanent fence or retaining wall shall be constructed or erected
within any public street or alley right-of-way unless authorized by the City
Council. Fences erected on public easements or across ditches shall be so
constructed that drainage shall not be obstructed. Fences erected in any
overland drainage easement shall be constructed to be at least 50% open to
facilitate the passage of stormwater/drainage. For every one unit of
horizontal, vertical and diagonal fencing aforementioned, 50% requirement may
be reduced if an adequate opening is provided at the base of the fencing to
allow for the free passage of water in sufficient amounts as deemed appropriate
by the City Administrator, Building Commissioner or the City Engineer. In the
event of necessity for removal of such fence for maintenance or other purpose,
removal and/or replacement of such fence or other improvement shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   Fences, walls and hedges in all residential districts shall not exceed
a maximum height of six feet and may be located up to lot lines.
   (E)   Fences, walls and hedges in the industrial district shall not exceed a
maximum of eight feet and may be located up to lot lines.
   (F)   With the exception of corner lots (see division (A) above), fences,
walls and hedges shall not exceed four feet in height when located in the front
and corner side yards. Chain link fencing is prohibited in front and corner
side yards.
   (G)   On a through lot, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines,
but in the case of two or more contiguous through lots there shall be a common
front.
   (H)   All of the framing on any fence shall be on the interior side of the
fence.
   (I)   A wall of a private swimming pool shall not be located less than ten
feet from any rear or side property line or ten feet from the side lot line
abutting a street or ten feet from any principal structure.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.12) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.052 YARD AND BUILDING SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.
   The following structures or structural elements shall be allowed to project
into or to be constructed in any required yard, or beyond the building setback
line, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and except that in no case
shall such structure, structural element or component part thereof extend
beyond the property line:
   (A)   Accessory buildings or structures, as provided for in §§
158.090 through
158.101;
   (B)   Air conditioner (window); central air conditioner, provided that the
unit is placed next to the dwelling if for residential use, and placed as
designated on an approved site plan and the hot air is baffled in an upward
direction if for nonresidential use. Central air conditioners shall be
prohibited in front yards;
   (C)   Awnings and canopies as governed by
Chapter 151;
   (D)   Balconies, unenclosed, not to exceed three feet in depth;
   (E)   Bay or bow windows, one or two stories, not to exceed three feet in
depth;
   (F)   Driveways and curbs;
   (G)   Fences, walls, hedges and decorative structures as provided for in §
158.051;
   (H)   Fireplace chimneys, not to exceed three feet in depth, so long as the
chimney chase does not exceed six feet in width;
   (I)   Landscape features and plant materials, such as trees, shrubs and
flowers. Planter boxes attached to a building shall not exceed two feet in
depth;
   (J)   Overhanging or projecting roofs, eaves, cornices or other similar
architectural features, not to exceed two feet in depth (including any gutters
attached thereto). For any portion of such features in excess of two feet in
depth, only the portion in excess shall count towards any setback or yard
requirements;
   (K)   Parking spaces as governed by §§
158.115 through
158.122;
   (L)   Public or municipal utility equipment and supporting structures;
   (M)   Sidewalks and ramps;
   (N)   Signs as governed by
Chapter 151;
   (O)   Steps, stairs and porches, all unenclosed, attached to and projecting
from a principal building or to give access to a principal building, not to
exceed four feet in height or depth;
   (P)   Yard lights and parking lot lighting poles and fixtures;
   (Q)   Fire escapes not to exceed four feet into required yard;
   (R)   Patios, no limit of intrusion; and
   (S)   The United States flag, a state flag, a municipal flag or a corporate
flag are exempt from this restriction. One flag of each type shall be allowed
on each zoning lot. Flags shall hang no greater than one third the length of
the pole that it is on. Flagpoles shall be no higher than 30 feet.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.13) (Ord. 08-1-4, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.053 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The requirements of divisions (A), (C) and (D) below do not apply to travel
trailers or other recreational vehicles parked on a permitted recreational
vehicle sales lot.
   (A)   Not more than one travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall
be parked on any one lot.
   (B)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling.
   (C)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose except for approved construction
offices.
   (D)   If no city sidewalk is present, the parking of a travel trailer,
utility trailer or other recreational vehicle shall only be permitted behind
the front property line between the dates of April 15 and October 15. The
parking area must be paved in accordance with §
158.119. After October 15 and prior to April 15, the parking of a travel
trailer, utility trailer and/or other recreational vehicles shall only be
permitted behind the building setback line.
   (E)   All travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall conform to and not
exceed regulations for height and weight restrictions when used within city
boundaries. No vehicle shall be parked or stored in a manner that inhibits or
impedes travel on city throughways.
   (F)   Storage or parking of travel trailers and recreational vehicles must
not violate any existing City Fire Protection District Code.
   (G)   In rear yards and side yards, parking of only the following types of
vehicles shall be permitted in addition to private passenger vehicles:
      (1)   Travel trailer, 35 feet or less in length and not to exceed eight
feet in width;
      (2)   Camper trailer (pop-up) shall be stored in a collapsed position;
      (3)   Pop-up camper, 24 feet or less in length and not to exceed 66
inches in height;
      (4)   Watercraft, 35 feet or less in length, but not to exceed 12 feet in
height, either mounted on a boat trailer or unmounted; also boat trailer
without boat mounted; and
      (5)   Trailers used as sales offices and/or construction offices or
construction storage may remain on a construction site during the period in
which the building and/or subdivision is under construction. Upon issuance of
the final occupancy permit for a single building project, or the occupancy
permit for the final building in a subdivision, all construction trailers must
be removed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.14) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.054 OUTSIDE DISPLAY, SALES AND STORAGE SPECIAL PERMIT.
   (A)   No outside display, sale or storage of materials (raw, semi-finished
or finished in nature), vehicles (including tractor trailers), equipment,
merchandise and other similar goods or containers, shall be permitted except by
issuance of a special permit unless specifically allowed in the use
restrictions section in the specific zoning district.
   (B)   Consideration for the issuance of an outside display, sales and
storage special permit shall be based upon the following criteria.
      (1)   A site plan, site lighting plan, site design plan, landscape plan,
engineering plan and building elevations shall be provided, as applicable, to
demonstrate that the proposed special use will not have a negative effect upon
the surroundings or adjacent properties. An engineering plan that addresses
stormwater management in accordance with the County Stormwater Ordinance shall
be required where paving of display, sales or storage areas occurs, since such
paving will contribute to or increase on-site runoff.
      (2)   An on-site circulation plan for both pedestrians and vehicles,
illustrating the location of the outdoor display, sales or storage area, shall
be provided that demonstrates that no adverse effect on circulation, parking or
general functioning of the site will occur.
      (3)   (a)   All outdoor storage areas shall be enclosed by a screening
fence, wall or densely planted evergreen hedge and associated appropriate
landscaping treatment, of a height sufficient to screen such containers,
storage areas or products from view of adjoining properties of public and
private streets. The primary requirement shall be for landscaping screening.
The substitution of walls or fencing shall be deemed a secondary solution
subject to proof of hardship. Stored materials shall not exceed the height of
the screening, and no materials, goods, vehicles and the like shall be
displayed, sold or stored outside of the screened area. Solid latchable doors
or gates thereto shall be required. Walls or fencing shall be of the same
material as the principal building or shall be of a compatible material.
         (b)   The city shall reserve the right to regulate the nature, height
and location of the screening and to impose any other terms and conditions as
is deemed in the best interests of the city as part of the review of the
special use.
      (4)   Written evidence shall be provided that standards and requirements
for health, safety and environmental protection by the city, as well as those
required by jurisdictions other than the city, have been met.
      (5)   All activities involving the manufacturing, fabricating, assembly,
disassembly, repairing, cleaning, servicing and testing of materials, products,
vehicles and goods shall be deemed ineligible for an outside display, sales and
storage special permit and shall be conducted solely within completely enclosed
buildings.
      (6)   All display, sales and storage areas shall be confined to locations
in the rear of the building erected on the premises, or at the side of said
building and behind the front line of said building as extended, but not both,
unless the petitioner can demonstrate that no adverse impact is created.
      (7)   Anything displayed, sold or stored outdoors that has a tendency to
be windblown shall be effectively covered so it does not become windblown.
      (8)   All areas to be used for outside display, sales or storage shall be
covered with a hard surface, such as two inches of asphalt or four inches of
concrete, or as the city shall otherwise require.
      (9)   Existing outside display, sales or storage uses that are rendered
nonconforming by virtue of enactment of these regulations shall be made
conforming with the issuance of an outside display, sales and storage special
permit by the city or shall be removed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.15) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.055 USE OF COMMERCIAL TRUCK TRAILERS AND RAILROAD CARS FOR STORAGE.
   Under no circumstances may commercial truck trailers and/or railroad cars be
placed on any lot for the purpose of serving as a place for storage.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.16) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.056 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   Multi-family residential dwellings with four or more dwelling units shall
place all refuse containers in visually screened areas. All multi-family units
that have refuse containers which are one or more cubic yards in volume shall
be in visually screened areas.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.17) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.057 DETERMINATION OF SIMILAR AND COMPATIBLE USES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to review and
determine whether uses that are not specifically enumerated in any zoning
district are similar and compatible to those use/uses that are specifically
enumerated within a particular district. The Zoning Administrator may approve
any such use/uses within a particular district upon a finding by the Zoning
Administrator that such use/uses are similar and compatible to those use/uses
enumerated within the particular district for which the use is being requested.
   (B)   The approval or denial of such use/uses within a particular district
by the Zoning Administrator shall be in writing, stating the reasons therefor,
and the determination of the Zoning Administrator shall be appealable to the
Planning and Zoning Commission. Any appeals from the determination of the
Zoning Administrator must be in writing, specifying the grounds for appeal, and
filed with the office of the Zoning Administrator within 30 days of the written
determination of the Zoning Administrator. Any appeal from a decision of the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to §
158.053 shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of §§
158.205 through
158.209.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 5.18) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES ****
§ 158.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide
the use of land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are
compatible with the predominant character of each of the various districts.
      (2)   Lots, structures and uses of land or structures that do not conform
to the requirements of the district in which they are located impede
appropriate development.
   (B)   The regulations of this subchapter are intended to alleviate such
existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of
nonconformities.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.071 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area,
dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in
the manner indicated in this chapter if such vacant lot:
   (A)   Is lot of record on the date of the adoption or amendment of this
chapter;
   (B)   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting tracts
of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such lot was
prohibited by any applicable zoning or other ordinance; and
   (C)   Is at least 50 feet wide.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.072 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In any residential district, one principal building and related accessory
structures, but no other use, may be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot of
the type described in §
158.071, provided all other bulk and yard regulations of the particular
district are observed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.073 BUSINESS, ORI AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   In the manufacturing district, ORI and in any business district, any
structure permitted in the particular district may be erected on any vacant
nonconforming lot of the type described in §
158.071 if all other bulk and yard requirements of that district are met.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.074 TWO OR MORE LOTS IN COMMON OWNERSHIP.
   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage were in common ownership on the effective date of this
chapter, and if one or more of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width,
depth and area requirements of the district in which it is located, the land
involved shall be considered an undivided parcel. No portion of any such parcel
shall be developed except in compliance with this chapter, nor shall any such
parcel be divided so as to create a lot that does not meet the requirements of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.075 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this chapter but
which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter because of
restrictions on lot size, height, setbacks or other characteristics of the
structure or its location on the lot may lawfully remain subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   Relocation. No such structure shall be relocated unless it will
conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is relocated.
   (B)   Reconstruction.
      (1)   No such structure which is destroyed or damaged by any means shall
be reconstructed if the Zoning Administrator determines that the cost of such
reconstruction exceeds 50% of the structure’s market value at the time of loss
unless, after reconstruction, the structure will conform to all applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   In the event the Administrator determines the estimated cost of
reconstruction is less than 50% of the structure’s market value at the time of
loss, repairs or reconstruction shall be permitted provided such work starts
within six months from the date the damage occurred and is diligently
prosecuted to completion.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost
estimate be made by a bona fide construction contractor and that the
structure’s market value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real
estate appraiser. The owner of the damaged structure shall be responsible for
obtaining these estimates for the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Repairs, maintenance and alterations.
      (1)   Ordinary repairs, normal maintenance and nonstructural alterations
may be made to a nonconforming building, structure or building containing a
nonconforming use, provided that the repairs, maintenance work or nonstructural
alterations do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
      (2)   Structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building,
structure or building containing a nonconforming use only in the following
situations:
         (a)   When the alteration is required by law;
         (b)   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use; and
         (c)   When the alteration is made to improve livability in a
residential nonconforming structure, provided that no structural alteration
shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling units, or the number
of bedrooms or the height, or bulk of the buildings.
   (D)   Additions and enlargements. A nonconforming building or structure, or
use within a nonconforming building or structure, shall not be added to or
enlarged in any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure and use
thereof, including all additions and enlargements thereto, is made to conform
to all the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.076 NONCONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter but would not be allowed under the terms of this chapter, such use may
lawfully continue subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a nonconforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, relocation. No structure
housing a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No nonconforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the
nonconforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Yard and bulk. A building which is nonconforming with respect to
yards, floor area ratio or any other element of bulk regulated by this chapter
shall not be altered or expanded in any manner which would increase the degree
or extent of its nonconformity with respect to the bulk regulations for the
district in which it is located.
   (E)   Change of use. A nonconforming use occupying a structure shall not be
changed except to a use permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (F)   Discontinuance of use. When a nonconforming use of a structure or of a
structure and premises in combination is discontinued for 12 consecutive months
or for 18 months during any three-year period, the nonconforming use shall not
thereafter be resumed.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.077 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A nonconforming use of land shall
not be intensified or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part unless such use upon relocation will conform to all pertinent regulations
of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Change of use. A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed except
to a use that is permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of 12 consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be resumed. Any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district
regulations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 6.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
**** ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES ****
§ 158.090 USES PERMITTED AS ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the terms ACCESSORY BUILDING, ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE or ACCESSORY USE include, but are not limited to, the following
permitted accessory buildings, structures or uses; subject, however, to the
limitations of this subchapter:
   (A)   For residential uses: private garden house or greenhouse; detached
garage; shed or building used for domestic storage; swimming pool; spa/hot tub;
yard lights; attached or detached deck, platform or terrace open to the sky;
gazebo; dog run; tennis court; and similar structures and buildings for
accessory use;
   (B)   For business/commercial uses: storage building for merchandise or
materials normally carried in stock as part of a principal use on the same lot
and placed as designated on an approved site plan; off-street parking and
loading facilities; garages; exterior swimming pools as part of a hotel/motel;
pump islands and attached or detached canopies for automobile service stations;
   (C)   For institutional and office uses: storage buildings for materials
relating to the principal use on the same lot and placed as designated on an
approved site plan; guardhouses and gatehouses; off-street parking and loading
facilities; garages; and
   (D)   For industrial/manufacturing uses: process or maintenance facilities
and storage buildings, clearly subordinate and incidental to the principal use
on the same lot and placed as designated on an approved site plan; guardhouses
and gatehouses; off-street parking and loading facilities; garages.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.091 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Where a substantial part of the wall of an accessory building or
structure is part of the wall of the principal building, or where an accessory
building is attached to the principal building in a substantial manner as by a
roof, such accessory building or structure shall be deemed to be part of the
principal building and shall conform to all regulations applicable thereto.
   (B)   No accessory building, structure or use may be located in a front yard
in any zoning district, and on a corner lot, no accessory building, structure
or use may be located in any yard adjacent to a street in any zoning district,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except that a single
basketball pole may be located at the side of a driveway for private
recreational use.
   (C)   An accessory building, structure or use may be located in a required
rear or side yard setback in any zoning district, as follows.
      (1)   Unless specified within a specific zoning classification, an
accessory building, structure or use in a residential zoning area may be
located to within ten feet of the rear lot line and to within seven feet of a
side lot line, provided that such building, structure or use is not located on
a recorded utility or drainage easement (except for equipment pertaining to
said easement) and provided that the wall of an accessory building facing the
rear lot line shall contain no openings.
      (2)   No accessory building, structure or use shall be located within ten
feet of a principal building. Decks, patios, platforms and terraces open to the
sky may be attached to the principal building but shall be subject to setback
requirements for accessory structures.
      (3)   Storage, process and maintenance buildings in nonresidential zoning
districts shall be as governed by the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Prohibited accessory buildings, structures and uses:
      (1)   Above-ground or ground storage tanks for oil, gas, fuel or any
other material on residential lots; and
      (2)   Servants’ quarters or similar dwelling units.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.092 CONSTRUCTION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   An accessory building or structure shall not be erected prior to the
establishment or construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
   (B)   All provisions of Chapter 150 are to be followed as they pertain to
accessory buildings, structures or uses.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.093 NUMBER, HEIGHT AND SIZE OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No detached accessory building or structure shall exceed one story,
with a maximum height of 15 feet, six inches unless otherwise provided in this
section.
   (B)   Storage sheds shall not exceed 12 feet in height and 120 square feet
in size.
   (C)   Detached garages shall not exceed 700 square feet in size.
   (D)   The sum total square footage of all accessory buildings and structures
shall not exceed 50% of a rear or side yard of a lot unless specified within a
specific zoning classification.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.094 DISTANCE BETWEEN ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   The required distance between the principal building and the accessory
building or structure shall be as follows, unless otherwise provided in this
subchapter. Between the principal building and the accessory building or
structure on the same lot: ten feet. However, in the case of a deck which is
not attached to the principal structure, the required distance from the
principal structure to the deck shall not apply.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.095 REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   In addition to the provisions in the city’s municipal code, pools
for swimming or bathing shall be in compliance with the requirements of this
division (A). However, these regulations shall not be applicable to any such
pool less than 24 inches deep or having a surface area less than 250 square
feet except when such pools are permanently equipped with a water recirculating
system.
      (2)   A wall of a private swimming pool shall not be located less than
ten feet from any rear or side property line or ten feet from side lot line
abutting a street or ten feet from any principal structure. A swimming pool
shall not be located in any front yard.
      (3)   For the purposes of establishing setbacks, the outer edge of pools
and spas/hot tubs shall include all associated decking, walk areas, required
fence enclosures and pump equipment. Pump and filter equipment may be located
adjacent to a principal structure.
   (B)   Tents and recreational vehicles. No tents, recreational vehicles or
camping trailers shall be used, erected or maintained as living quarters. No
tents shall be used for the storage of personal property, goods, materials,
vehicles or equipment. Tents, however, shall not be prohibited when used for
weddings, festivals and other special events subject to conditions placed on
other accessory buildings and structures.
   (C)   Mobile homes and modular units. A house trailer, mobile home/office or
modular unit, as defined by the state compiled statutes, shall not be
considered to be permissible as an accessory building, structure or use or as a
principal building, structure or use, and no person shall park, store, occupy
or otherwise use a trailer, mobile home/office or modular unit without
obtaining a temporary use permit from the City Council.
   (D)   Parking facilities. Accessory off-street parking facilities may be
permitted to be located elsewhere than on the same lot as the building or use
to be served by said parking, subject, however, to approval of the city in
conjunction with a site plan review of the principal and the accessory
buildings or uses.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.096 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS REGULATIONS.
   See §§
158.135 through
158.144.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.097 ANTENNAS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   No antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained or operated in any
residential zoning district except in conformance with the following
regulations.
   (A)   Antennas with surface areas of ten square feet or less. Antennas and
antenna support structures having a combined surface area not greater than ten
square feet, and no single dimension exceeding 12 feet, shall be permitted as
an accessory use.
   (B)   Antennas, other than amateur radio facilities, with surface areas
exceeding ten square feet. Antennas and antenna support structures having a
combined surface area greater than ten square feet, or having any single
dimension exceeding 12 feet, shall be permitted as an accessory use only in
compliance with the following regulations.
      (1)   Number limited. No more than one such antenna and antenna support
structure may be located on any zoning lot.
      (2)   Height limited. No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed 12 feet in height unless such antenna and antenna support structure is
attached to a building pursuant to division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   Diameter limited. No such antenna or antenna support structure
shall exceed ten feet in diameter.
      (4)   Attachment to buildings limited. No such antenna or antenna support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied.
         (a)   Size. The antenna and its support structure shall not exceed 15
square feet in area or 12 feet in any dimension.
         (b)   Height. The antenna and its support structure shall not extend
more than three feet above the highest point of the building on which it is
mounted or the maximum permissible building height, whichever is less.
         (c)   Mounting. The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 80 mph on
its own and without the support of guy wires.
         (d)   Color. The antenna and its support structure shall be a color
that blends with the roof or building side on which it is mounted.
         (e)   Grounding. The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded
to a grounding rod.
         (f)   Other standards. The antenna and its support structure shall
satisfy such other design and construction standards as the Building
Commissioner determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and
maintenance of the antenna and its support structure.
         (g)   Screening. The antenna and its support structure shall be
located so as to provide the maximum, reasonably achievable screening, as
determined by the Building Commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support
structure from view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
         (h)   Setback from street. No such antenna or its support structure
shall be erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the
principal building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
         (i)   Guy wires restricted. No guy or other support wires shall be
used in connection with such antenna or its support structure except when used
to anchor the antenna or support structure to an existing building to which
such antenna or support structure is attached.
         (j)   Screening. When any such antenna and antenna support structure
is ground-mounted, appropriate landscaping or fencing shall be located and
maintained between such ground-mounted antenna and antenna support structure
and each lot line of the property on which it is located so as to provide the
maximum, reasonably achievable screening as determine by the Building
Commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from view from
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than ten feet in
height.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.098 ANTENNAS IN BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   No antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained or operated in any
business or industry zoning district except in conformance with the following
regulations.
   (A)   Antennas with surface areas of ten square feet or less. Antennas and
antenna support structures having a combined surface area not greater than ten
square feet, and no single dimension exceeding 12 feet, shall be permitted as
an accessory use.
   (B)   Antennas, other than amateur radio facilities, with surface areas
exceeding ten square feet. Antennas and antenna support structures having a
combined surface area greater than ten square feet, or having any single
dimension exceeding 12 feet, shall be permitted as an accessory use only in
compliance with the following regulations.
      (1)   Number limited. No more than one such antenna and antenna support
structure may be located on any zoning lot.
      (2)   Height limited. No such antenna or antenna support structure shall
exceed 12 feet in height unless such antenna and antenna support structure is
attached to a building pursuant to division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   Diameter limited. No such antenna or antenna support structure
shall exceed ten feet in diameter.
      (4)   Attachment to buildings limited. No such antenna or antenna support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied.
         (a)   Height. The antenna and its support structure shall not extend
more than three feet above the highest point of the building on which it is
mounted or the maximum permissible building height, whichever is less.
         (b)   Mounting. The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 80 mph on
its own and without the support of guy wires.
         (c)   Color. The antenna and its support structure shall be a color
that blends with the roof or building side on which it is mounted.
         (d)   Grounding. The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded
to a grounding rod.
            1.   Other standards: The antenna and its support structure shall
satisfy such other design and construction standards as the Building
Commissioner determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and
maintenance of the antenna and its support structure.
            2.   Screening: The antenna and its support structure shall be
located so as to provide the maximum, reasonably achievable screening, as
determined by the Building Commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support
structure from view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
         (e)   Setback from street. No such antenna or its support structure
shall be erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the
principal building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
         (f)   Guy wires restricted. No guy or other support wires shall be
used in connection with such antenna or its support structure except when used
to anchor the antenna or support structure to an existing building to which
such antenna or support structure is attached.
      (5)   Screening. When any such antenna and antenna support structure is
ground-mounted, appropriate landscaping or fencing shall be located and
maintained between such ground-mounted antenna and antenna support structure
and each lot line of the property on which it is located so as to provide the
maximum, reasonably achievable screening as determine by the Building
Commissioner, of such antenna and antenna support structure from view from
adjoining properties and public or private streets. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more than ten feet in
height.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.099 AMATEUR RADIO FACILITIES; SURFACE AREAS.
   In any zoning district, any antenna and antenna support structure having a
combined surface area greater than ten square feet or having any single
dimension exceeding 12 feet that is capable of transmitting as well as
receiving signals and is licensed by the Federal Communications Commission as
an amateur radio facility must satisfy each of the following conditions.
   (A)   Number limited. No more than one such antenna support structure with a
surface area greater than ten square feet or any single dimension exceeding 12
feet may be located on any zoning lot.
   (B)   Height limited. No such antenna support structure shall, if ground-
mounted, exceed 75 feet in height or, if attached to a building pursuant to
this section, the height herein specified.
   (C)   Attachment to buildings limited. No such antenna or its support
structure shall be attached to a principal or accessory structure unless all of
the following conditions are satisfied.
      (1)   Height. The antenna and its support structure shall not extend more
than 20 feet above the highest point of the building on which it is mounted.
      (2)   Mounting. The antenna and its support structure shall not be
attached to or mounted upon any building appurtenance, such as a chimney. The
antenna and its support structure shall not be mounted or attached to the front
of any principal building or to the side of any building facing a street,
including any portion of the building roof facing any street. The antenna and
its support structure shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 80 mph on
its own and without the support of guy wires.
      (3)   Grounding. The antenna and its support structure shall be bonded to
a grounding rod.
      (4)   Other standards. The antenna support structure shall satisfy such
other design and construction standards as the Building Commissioner reasonably
determines are necessary to ensure safe construction and maintenance of the
antenna and its support structure.
   (D)   Setback from street. No such antenna or its support structure shall be
erected or maintained closer to any street than the wall of the principal
building to which it is accessory that is nearest to such street.
   (E)   Setbacks from adjacent buildings. No such antenna or its support
structure shall be located in any required side yard or nearer than one-half
the height of the antenna and support structure to any habitable building on
any adjacent property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.100 ADDITIONAL ANTENNA REGULATIONS IN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In addition to any other provisions, no such antenna or antenna
support structure permitted under §§
158.097 through
158.099 shall hereafter be constructed, altered or enlarged in the city unless
a certificate of zoning compliance therefor has been issued by the Building
Commissioner. An application for such certificate shall be accompanied by two
sets of plans, two plats of survey and electrical, construction and design
specifications drawn to scale and showing locations, heights, structural design
and any other pertinent information or certifications deemed necessary by the
Building Commissioner to demonstrate compliance with all provisions of the
city’s zoning code and building code. When applicable, an application for a
certificate of zoning compliance shall include landscaping plans demonstrating
that the screening requirements of §§
158.097 and
158.098 will be satisfied within eight months after the date of the issuance of
such certificate. A refundable cash deposit in an amount estimated by the
Building Commissioner as necessary to cover the cost of implementing the
proposed landscaping and screening must accompany each application for a
certificate of zoning compliance for the antenna and antenna support structure.
The deposit shall be returned when, but only when, a final inspection by the
Building Commissioner confirms that all required landscaping and screening is
in place.
   (B)   Unless specifically provided to the contrary, when the regulations of
§§
158.097 through
158.099 are more restrictive than any other regulations generally applicable
within the zoning districts, the provision of §§
158.097 through
158.099 shall apply.
   (C)   For purposes of §§
158.097 through
158.099, the surface area of an antenna and its support structure shall be
determined by adding together the actual surface area of each solid element or
part of the antenna or its support structure, where SOLID is defined to include
all air spaces that are fully bounded by solid elements.
   (D)   Except as otherwise expressly provided in §§
158.097 through
158.099, all such antennas and antenna support structures shall be subject to
all the provisions of this chapter applicable to accessory uses and structures.
   (E)   The foregoing special regulations shall not apply to antennas and
antenna support structures owned or maintained by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.101 NONCONFORMING ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   All accessory buildings, structures and uses heretofore lawfully constructed
and not conforming to the provisions hereof are declared legal nonconforming
uses and may be permitted to continue to exist, but shall not be reconstructed
or altered, and if rebuilt, must conform to existing codes as of the passage of
this subchapter, which is August 26, 2002.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 7.12) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING ****
§ 158.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the
public streets and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the property use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.116 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Procedure. An application for a site plan review, zoning action or
building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure or use shall include
a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking and/or
loading facilities to be provided in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Extent of control. The off-street parking and loading requirements of
this chapter shall apply as follows:
      (1)   When a building or structure erected prior to or after the
effective date of this chapter shall undergo any decrease in number of dwelling
units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for the required parking or loading
facilities, and further, when said decrease would result in a requirement for
fewer total parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of
this chapter thereto, parking and loading facilities may be reduced
accordingly, provided that existing parking or loading facilities remaining
would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements resulting
from application of the provisions of this chapter to the entire building or
structure as modified;
      (2)   When a building or structure undergoes any increase in the number
of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or
other unit of measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading
facilities, and further, when said increase would result in a requirement for
additional total parking or loading spaces through application of the
provisions of this chapter thereto, parking and loading facilities shall be
increased accordingly, provided that existing parking or loading facilities
shall be so increased that the facilities would at least equal or exceed the
parking or loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions of
this chapter to the entire building or structure as modified;
      (3)   When any building or structure is hereafter erected, or any use of
land hereafter established upon previously vacated land;
      (4)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises is
increased; and
      (5)   When any existing use of a building, structure or the premises is
changed or converted to a new use.
   (C)   Existing parking and loading spaces. Accessory off-street parking and
loading spaces in existence on the effective date of this chapter may not be
reduced in number unless already exceeding the requirements of this subchapter
for equivalent new construction; in which event said spaces shall not be
reduced below the number required herein for such equivalent new construction.
   (D)   Permitted parking and loading spaces. Nothing in this subchapter shall
prevent the establishment of off-street automobile parking or loading
facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings, subject to full
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Damage or destruction. Any building, structure or use which is in
existence and is a conforming use on the effective date of this chapter and
which subsequently shall be damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion
or other cause may be reconstructed, reestablished or repaired without meeting
current standards for off-street parking or loading facilities, except that
parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, it
shall not be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in
excess of those required by this chapter for equivalent new construction.
   (F)   Submission of plot plan. Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include
a plot plan drawn to scale and fully dimensioned showing any parking or loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with this chapter.
   (G)   Use of parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities accessory to
residential use and developed in any residential district in accordance with
the requirements of this subchapter shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles owned by occupants of the dwellings to which such
facilities are accessory or by guests of such occupants.
   (H)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas in any zoning district
shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick or brick pavers and pursuant to
the city’s building code.
   (I)   Required parking and loading facilities.
      (1)   Tables for required parking and loading. Requirements governing the
number and location of off-street parking and off-street loading facilities in
relation to the use of property are established hereinafter in this chapter.
The parking and loading requirements for any use not specified herein shall be
the same as for a similar specified use, as determined by §
158.117.
      (2)   Floor area. For the purpose of this division (I), the term FLOOR
AREA, in the case of office, merchandising or service types of use, shall mean
the gross floor area of a building or structure used or intended to be used for
service to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients, tenants and
employees, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display
or sale of merchandise. All calculations shall be prorated when floor areas are
used as the standard. FLOOR AREAS shall not include any area used for:
         (a)   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building;
         (b)   Incidental repairs;
         (c)   Processing or packaging of merchandise;
         (d)   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or
maintenance of a store or a building;
         (e)   Restrooms;
         (f)   Utilities/utility rooms; and
         (g)   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.117 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS, PARKING.
   (A)   Use of parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities accessory to
residential uses and developed in any residential zoning district in accordance
with the requirements of this section shall be used solely for the parking of
motor vehicles owned by occupants of the dwelling units to which such
facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants. Under no circumstances
shall required parking facilities accessory to residential structures be used
for the parking, repair or storage of commercial vehicles of over one-ton
capacity, including trucks, trailers, vans and other such vehicles, except when
parked temporarily in making delivery, loading, unloading or service calls.
   (B)   Control of off-site facilities. When required accessory off-street
parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot on which the
principal use served is located, they shall be in the same possession, either
by deed or long-term lease, as the property occupied by such principal use, and
the owner shall be bound by covenants filed of record in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds requiring the owner and his or her heirs and assigns
to maintain the required number of parking spaces during the existence of said
principal use. However, no parking facilities accessory to a nonresidential use
shall be located in a residential zoning district.
   (C)   Design and maintenance.
      (1)   Parking space description. A required off-street parking space
shall be an area of not less than 171 square feet nor less than nine feet wide
by 19 feet long, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps or columns or
exclusive of private nonresidential driveways or aisles leading to streets.
Where parking spaces overhang landscaped areas, spaces may be reduced in length
by one foot.
      (2)   Measurement of space. When determination of the number of required
off-street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction shall be interpreted as one parking space.
      (3)   Open and enclosed spaces. Parking areas may be open or enclosed and
the parking facilities provided shall be as approved by the city upon review of
the site plan and use.
      (4)   Access. Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street in such a manner as will least interfere with
the movement of traffic. The design of parking areas shall also minimize
conflicts between pedestrian and vehicular movements. Driveway accesses or curb
cuts in any zoning district shall be governed by
Chapter 150.
      (5)   Signs. No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential zoning district, except such as may be necessary for the orderly
use of the parking facilities as provided in §§
158.135 through
158.144.
      (6)   Required setbacks. No parking space nor portion thereof established
on a zoning lot without a building shall be located closer to any right-of-way
than the front yard setback required for the zoning district in which the
parking space is located. Further, any wall, fence or hedge developed around
any parking area shall be subject to the front yard setback requirements of
this chapter in the same manner as a building or structure. No parking space
shall be designed in such a way so as to cause a vehicle to block a sidewalk.
      (7)   Surfacing. All open off-street parking areas, including driveways,
aisles, service drives and aprons, shall be improved with a compacted crushed
stone or gravel base, and surfaced with asphaltic or bituminous concrete (also
known as “asphalt” and “blacktop”), Portland cement concrete, brick or pavers,
pursuant to the city’s building code.
      (8)   Screening. All open off-street parking areas for eight or more
motor vehicles shall be effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence or a
densely planted compact hedge along any side which adjoins or is directly
across a street from a property in a residential zoning district or an
institutional property. Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least three feet,
but not more than five feet, in height and shall be maintained in good
condition.
      (9)   Heat and glare. In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize
blowing of dust and trash and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large
open parking areas, landscaping shall be provided and maintained with every
parking lot that contains eight or more parking spaces.
         (a)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of
a more inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for a
certificate of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain
eight or more spaces.
         (b)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
            1.   Proposed type, amount, size and spacing of plantings,
including trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
            2.   Proposed size, construction materials, drainage and scheduled
maintenance of landscaped islands or planting beds; and
            3.   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement.
      (10)   Lighting.
         (a)   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area shall
be arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining properties. Maximum
horizontal foot-candles as given off by the neighboring property as measured in
the following districts shall not exceed:
 
Zoning District Foot-Candles Lux
Business        2.0          21.5
Manufacturing   5.0          53.8
Multiple-family 0.2          2.0
Municipal       5.0          53.8
Single-family   0.1          1.0
 
         (b)   All lighting fixtures erected 20 to 40 feet above ground level
shall:
            1.   Be flat bottom optically controlled sharp cut-offs, approved
by the City Engineer;
            2.   Not be installed with diffusing refractors; and
            3.   Maintain a ratio of 3:1 or less of lighting fixture spacing to
lighting fixture mounting heights.
         (c)   All lighting fixtures erected from zero to 20 feet above ground
level shall:
            1.   Be of translucent materials and not transparent material,
approved by the City Engineer;
            2.   Not be installed with diffusing refractors; and
            3.   Lighting fixtures shall not be erected higher than 40 feet
above ground level.
         (d)   Upon the obsolescence or replacement of existing nonconforming
lighting in off-street lighting parking areas, lighting shall conform to this
subchapter.
   (D)   Special use public parking areas. Any parking area developed for
transient trade and not accessory to specific principal uses or groups of uses
for which parking is required by this chapter, shall be treated as a “special
use” as defined in §
158.003 and as allowed in accordance with the provisions of §§
158.240 through
158.252 by the City Council.
   (E)   Accessible parking spaces.
      (1)   Accessible parking spaces for mobility impaired persons shall be at
least 16 feet wide, including an eight-foot wide access aisle, and adjacent
parking spaces shall not share a common access aisle. All access aisles shall
be diagonally striped and shall be provided with a gradual transition to an
accessible route to the on-site destination. Such spaces shall also measure 19
feet in length. Where such spaces overhang landscaped areas, spaces may be
reduced in length by one foot.
      (2)   The number of spaces required and their placement within the
parking facility shall be in accordance with state accessibility standards. For
some uses, a certain number of spaces in any self-park facility shall be set
aside for wheelchair access as summarized in the following table.
Total Spaces Minimum Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces   Minimum Accessible Spaces
1 to 25        1
26 to 50       2
51 to 75       3
76 to 100      4
101 to 150     5
151 to 200     6
201 to 300     7
301 to 400     8
401 to 500     9
501 to 1,000   2% of total
1,001 and over 20 plus 1 per 100 over 1,000 spaces
Notes to Table:
Some flexibility in the placement of such spaces may be considered if
interpretation of such standards permits
 
   (F)   Service area parking spaces. Parking spaces located in the rear area
of project sites or the service area of a project shall be discouraged. Where
permitted, such spaces shall be limited to employee and service parking only.
   (G)   Off-street guest parking (residential areas). Off-street parking areas
intended for residential guest parking shall be located a minimum of ten feet
from any adjacent right-of way and shall not be placed in the required minimum
side or rear yard areas of any residential zoning lot.
   (H)   Aisle widths, lengths. The width and length of all aisles providing
direct access to individual parking spaces shall be in accordance with the
requirements specified herein.
   (I)   Joint parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities for different
buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively
in any zoning district in which separate parking facilities for each
constituent use would be permitted or required, provided that the total number
of spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use.
   (J)   Shared parking facilities. Cumulative parking requirements for mixed
use occupancies may be reduced by the City Council where it can be determined
that the peak requirement of the several occupancies occurs at different times
(either daily or seasonally). The shared parking report published by the Urban
Land Institute may be used as a guideline in the estimation of parking demand
for mixed use buildings and sites.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.118 LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Extent of control. Off-street parking facilities shall be located as
hereinafter specified: where a distance is specified, such distance shall be
the walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking area to the
nearest entrance of the building that said parking area is required to serve.
      (1)   Residential districts. Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
located in any residential zoning district shall be located on the same lot as
the dwelling. Such parking spaces shall not be located in any front yard or
side yard with the exception of a paved area not to exceed 22 feet in width at
the property line and 33 feet in width overall. Such parking spaces shall not
be located any further into the front yard toward the principal structure than
the garage and shall be set hack from the side property line a minimum of five
feet. Each parking space accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be
unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order to allow another vehicle
to enter/exit the parking area. Parking areas constructed after the adoption of
this chapter shall be constructed of asphalt or concrete.
      (2)   Nonresidential uses. All parking spaces accessory to permitted non-
dwelling uses located in any residential district generally shall be located on
the same lot as the use serviced. However, the Zoning Administrator may allow
such parking facilities to be located on another parcel within 200 feet of the
use served if the “same lot” requirement is not feasible.
      (3)   Business and manufacturing districts.
         (a)   Parking spaces accessory to any building or use located in any
business district shall either be located on the same lot as the principal
building or on another parcel within 200 feet of the premises. Parking lots
accessory to any business or manufacturing use located in any business district
or in a manufacturing district shall be located within 500 feet of the use
serviced; provided, that no portion of any such parking lot shall extend into
any residential district except by special use permit.
         (b)   In any business or manufacturing district, off-street parking
facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively; but
only if the total number of spaces located together is not less than the sum of
the separate requirements for each use and if all regulations governing
location or parking.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.119 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below.
   (A)   Size of space. Every required off-street loading space shall be at
least 12 feet wide and 50 feet long, exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and
shall have vertical clearance of at least 15 feet. In no case shall a vehicle
being loaded or unloaded overhang into the public right-of way.
   (B)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12
feet wide.
   (C)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick and surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic concrete.
   (D)   Buffer strips. No loading space or area for vehicles over two-ton
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than 50 feet to the lot line of any
residential district unless space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a solid
fence or closely planted shrubbery of sufficient density to block the view from
the residential property and in conformity with landscape regulations.
   (E)   Location. Every off-street loading space that is required or provided
shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use served and not closer
than 50 feet to the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets or
in required front yards.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.120 FORMULAS FOR OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. For the purpose of this section, EMPLOYEE PARKING means “one
parking space shall be required per one and one-half employees,” unless
otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for the number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be
counted as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for
another structure or use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.121 NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as provided in the
following table. For any use that is not listed in the table, the same amount
of parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the most
similar listed use. The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination of
similarity.
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required (if any)
Use                       Parking Spaces Required    Loading Spaces Required
                                                     (if any)
Automobile car wash/      3 spaces per wash lane     Not applicable
laundry
Bank drive-in or          5 spaces per teller window Not applicable
automated teller
Bank, savings and loan,   1 space per 300 square
walk-in                   feet of floor area plus    Not applicable
                          employee parking
Beauty, barber shop       2 spaces per chair plus    Not applicable
                          employee parking
                          4 spaces per bowling lane
                          plus additional spaces as  Not applicable except as
Bowling alley             require herein for         required for affiliated
                          affiliated uses such as    uses
                          restaurants and taverns
College, business,        1 space for every 3
professional, trade       students that the building On review by the Zoning
school                    is designed to accommodate Administrator
                          plus employee parking
                                                     Not applicable up to
                                                     10,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area; 1 space if
Commercial, office,       4 spaces per 1,000 square  more than 10,000 square
service                   feet of floor area         feet; 1 space plus 1
                                                     additional space per
                                                     50,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     10,000 square feet
Educational,              1 space per 4 seats in the
institutional, church,    largest seating area       Not applicable
auditorium
                                                     To 25,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area; more than
Furniture, appliance      1 space per 600 square     25,000 square feet of
store                     feet of floor area         floor area 2 spaces plus
                                                     square feet of floor area
                                                     in excess of 25,000 feet
                                                     1 space if floor area is
                                                     50,001 to 100,000 square
                                                     feet; 2 spaces if floor
Hospital                  1 space per 2 beds plus    area is 100,001 to 200,000
                          employee parking           square feet; over 200
                                                     square feet the number of
                                                     spaces is determined by
                                                     the Zoning Administrator
                          1 space per unit plus
                          employee parking and
Hotel, motel, boarding    additional spaces as       Not applicable
house                     required herein for
                          affiliated uses such as
                          restaurants and taverns
Laundromat                1 space per washer plus 1  Not applicable
                          space per employee
                                                     To 20,000 square feet, 1
                                                     space; 20,001 to 50,000
                          1 space for each up to     square feet, 2 spaces;
Manufacturing, any        100,000 square feet; 1     50,001 to 90,000 square
manufacturing, other      space for each 2,000       feet, 3 spaces plus 2
industrial use            square feet in excess of   additional spaces per
                          100,000 square feet        50,000 square feet of area
                                                     in excess of 90,000 square
                                                     feet
                          1 space per 5 seats plus 1
                          space per funeral vehicle  1 space per 10,000 square
Mortuary                  but not less than 20       feet or more of floor area
                          spaces per chapel or state
                          room
Multiple-family dwelling  2 spaces per dwelling unit Not applicable
                          1 for each 2 employees
Municipal or privately    plus spaces adequate in
owned recreation building number to the visiting     Not applicable
or community center       public as determined by
                          the Zoning Administrator
                                                     To 50,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area, 1 space;
Nursing home              1 space per 5 beds plus    50,001 to 100,000 square
                          employee parking area      feet, 2 spaces; 100,001 to
                                                     200,000 square feet, 3
                                                     spaces
                                                     To 30,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area, none required;
                                                     30,000 to 100,000 square
Office, generally         4 spaces per 1,000 square  feet, 1 space plus 1
                          feet of floor area         additional space per
                                                     100,000 square feet of
                                                     floor area in excess of
                                                     100,000 square feet
Refreshment stand, drive- 1 space per 25 square feet 1 space per structure
in/drive-through          of floor area. 5 stacking  having 10,000 square feet
restaurant                spaces per service window  or more of floor area
                          1 space per 4 seats or 1   1 space per 10,000 square
Restaurant, sit down      space per 50 square feet   feet or more of floor
                          of floor area, whichever   space
                          is greater
Service station           2 spaces per service staff Not applicable
                          plus employee parking
Single-family and 2-      2 spaces per dwelling unit Not applicable
family dwellings
                          1 space per 4 seats or 1   1 space per structure
Tavern                    space per 50 square feet   having 10,000 square feet
                          of floor area, whichever   or more of floor area
                          is greater
Theater, drive-in         On review by Zoning        Not applicable
                          Administrator
Theater, indoor           1 space per 4 seats        Not applicable
                          1 space per 300 square
Vehicle sales (auto,      feet of enclosed floor     As determined by the
boats, trailers and the   area and up to 10,000      Zoning Administrator
like)                     square feet of open lot
                          area
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.122 ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In any R-5 Residential District, the following parking regulations are
also applicable.
      (1)   Except as follows, parking spaces shall not be located in any
required front yard.
         (a)   A single-family dwelling may have a driveway not to exceed 33
feet in width.
         (b)   A two-family dwelling may have a driveway for each dwelling
unit. Each driveway shall not exceed 22 feet in width and shall be separated
from the other driveway by a minimum 24 inches of landscaping that has a
minimum height of two feet. Grass and/or sod are not classified as landscaping.
      (2)   Each parking space accessory to a multiple-family dwelling shall be
unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order to allow another vehicle
to enter/exit the parking area.
      (3)   All parking areas in this district shall be constructed of asphalt
or concrete.
      (4)   Parking shall not be permitted in the required rear yard.
   (B)   In any B-3 Regional Shopping District, the following parking
regulations are also applicable.
      (1)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking is not allowed in required yards.
         (b)   Parking spaces shall be based on the following:
            1.   Office use: four spaces per 1,000 feet of building space; and
            2.   Retail use: five spaces per 1,000 square feet of building
space and outdoor retail space.
      (2)   Loading. Pursuant to §
158.119.
      (3)   Access control requirements; driveways.
         (a)   All projects are restricted to one driveway for each 250 feet
from the nearest driveway (including adjacent properties which intersect with a
major roadway).
         (b)   Whenever possible, access to a project shall be provided from
cross streets, in place of an additional driveway from major roadway.
         (c)   Driveways shall be located and designed to minimize interference
with the operation of left-turn lanes at street intersections.
         (d)   Whenever possible, access between properties should be provided
in order to minimize the number of driveways from a property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 8.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
**** WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS ****
§ 158.135 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide specific
regulations for the placement, construction and modification of personal
wireless service facilities. The provisions of this subchapter are not intended
to and shall not be interpreted to prohibit or to have the effect of
prohibiting the provision of personal wireless services, nor shall the
provisions of this subchapter be applied in such a manner as to unreasonably
discriminate between providers of functionally equivalent personal wireless
services. To the extent that any provision or provisions of this subchapter are
inconsistent with or in conflict with any other provision of this chapter, the
city’s municipal code or any ordinance of the city, the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed to control.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any provisions of this code to the contrary,
pursuant to State Pub. Act 100-0585, the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act, being 50 ILCS 840/1 et seq., effective June 1, 2018, small wireless
facilities shall be classified as permitted used if they are collocated in
right-of-way in any zone or outside of rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use. By state law, such uses shall not
be subject to zoning review or approval. The regulation for such facilities is
now contained in §
154.17. All other qualifying facilities continue to be subject to the code
provisions that follow.
   (B)   (1)   In the course of reviewing any request for any approval required
under this subchapter made by an applicant to provide personal wireless
services or to install personal wireless service facilities, the Commission or
the City Council, as the case may be, shall act within a reasonable period of
time after the request is duly filed with the city, taking into account the
nature and scope of the request.
      (2)   Any decision to deny such a request shall be in writing and
supported by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
   (C)   The purpose of this subchapter is to also establish general guidelines
for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas. The goals of
this subchapter are to:
      (1)   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      (2)   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
      (3)   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      (4)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
      (5)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      (6)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      (7)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      (8)   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      (9)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful sitting of tower structures.
   (D)   In furtherance of these goals, the city shall give due consideration
to the city’s comprehensive land use plan, zoning map, existing land uses and
environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites for the location of towers
and antennas.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK. The lines that connect a provider’s towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT. When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS and PREEXISTING ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date of this subchapter, including permitted towers or antennas that
have not yet been constructed so long as such approval is current and not
expired.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers
or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.137 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New towers and antennas. All new towers or antennas in the city shall
be subject to these regulations, except as provided in divisions (B) through
(D) below.
   (B)   Amateur radio station operators/receive only antennas. This subchapter
shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna, that is under
70 feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur
radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas. Said
antennas are governed by §
158.099.
   (C)   Preexisting towers or antennas. Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this subchapter
other than the requirements of §
158.138(F) and (G).
   (D)   AM array. For purposes of implementing this subchapter, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.138 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use of an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
tower on such lot.
   (B)   Lot size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including, but
not limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage requirements and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   (C)   Inventory of existing sites.
      (1)   Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall provide to the
Zoning Administrator an inventory of its existing towers, antennas or sites
approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of the
city or within one mile of the border thereof, including specific information
about the location, height and design of each tower.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may share such information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals or special use permits under
this subchapter or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of the city; provided, however, that the Zoning Administrator is
not, by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that
such sites are available or suitable.
   (D)   Aesthetics. Towers and antennas shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
      (4)   Barbed or razor wire shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Lighting. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   (F)   State or federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC and any other agency of the state
or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas. If
such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers and
antennas governed by this subchapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six months of the
effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a different compliance
schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal agency. Failure to
bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owner’s expense.
   (G)   Building codes; safety standards. To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes
and the applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic
Industries Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the
city concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into
compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower into compliance
within said 30 days shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or
antenna at the owner’s expense.
   (H)   Measurement. For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
the city irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
   (I)   Not essential services. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this subchapter and shall not be regulated or permitted
as essential services, public utilities or private utilities.
   (J)   Franchises. Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in the city have been obtained and
shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Zoning Administrator.
   (K)   Public notice. For purposes of this subchapter, any special use
request, variance request or appeal of an administratively approved use or
special use shall require public notice to all abutting property owners and all
property owners of properties that are located within the corresponding
separation distance listed in the table found in §
158.141(B)(5)(b), in addition to any notice otherwise required by §§
158.290 through
158.306.
   (L)   Signs. No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
   (M)   Buildings and support equipment. Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of §
158.142.
   (N)   Multiple antenna/tower plan. The city encourages the users of towers
and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers
and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall be
given priority in the review process.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.139 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   General. The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require administrative approval or a special use permit.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are specifically permitted:
antennas or towers located on property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by
the city provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has been
approved by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.140 ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED USES.
   (A)   General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may administratively approve the uses
listed in this section.
      (2)   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
Zoning Administrator providing the information set forth in §
158.141(B)(1) and (B)(3) and a non-refundable fee as established by resolution
of the City Council to reimburse the city for the costs of reviewing the
application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with §§
158.138 and
158.141(B)(4) and (B)(5).
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall respond to each such application
within 60 days after receiving it by either approving or denying the
application. If the Zoning Administrator fails to respond to the applicant
within said 60 days, then the application shall be deemed to be approved.
      (5)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively waive any
zoning district setback requirements in §
158.141(B)(4) or separation distances between towers in §
158.141(B)(5) by up to 50%.
      (6)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles, administratively
allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole construction.
      (7)   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall file
an application for a special use permit pursuant to §
158.141 prior to filing any appeal that may be available under this chapter.
   (B)   List of administratively approved uses. The following uses may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator after conducting an administrative review:
      (1)   Locating a tower or antenna, including the placement of additional
buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with said tower or
antenna, in any M-Manufacturing District;
      (2)   Locating antennas on existing structures or towers consistent with
the terms of this division (B)(2), as follows:
         (a)   Antennas on existing structures. Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as an accessory
use to any commercial, industrial, professional, institutional or multi-family
structure of eight or more dwelling units, provided:
            1.   The antenna does not extend more than 30 feet above the
highest point of the structure;
            2.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            3.   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
         (b)   Antennas on existing towers. An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator and, to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
towers, collocation of antennas by more than one carrier on existing towers
shall take precedence over the construction of new towers, provided such
collocation is accomplished in a manner consistent with the following:
            1.   A tower which is modified or reconstructed to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna shall be of the same tower type as the
existing tower, unless the Zoning Administrator allows reconstruction as a
monopole;
            2.   Height:
               a.   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed 30 feet over the tower’s existing height, to accommodate
the collocation of an additional antenna;
               b.   The height change referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above may only occur one time per communication tower; and
               c.   The additional height referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above shall not require an additional distance separation as set forth in §
158.141. The tower’s pre-modification height shall be used to calculate such
distance separations.
            3.   On-site location:
               a.   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved on-site within 50 feet of its
existing location;
               b.   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only
one remain on the site;
               c.   A relocated on-site tower shall continue to be measured
from the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation
distances between towers pursuant to §
158.141(B)(5). The relocation of a tower hereunder shall in no way be deemed to
cause a violation of §
158.141(B)(5); and
               d.   The on-site relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands as
established in §
158.141(B)(5) shall only be permitted when approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   New towers in manufacturing districts. Locating any new tower in a
manufacturing district, provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the
tower can structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the
applicant; the Zoning Administrator concludes the tower is in conformity with
the goals set forth in §
158.135 and the requirements of §
158.138; the tower meets the setback requirements in §
158.141(B)(4) and separation distances in §
158.141(B)(5); and the tower meets the following height and usage criteria:
         (a)   For a single user, up to 90 feet in height;
         (b)   For two users, up to 120 feet in height; and
         (c)   For three or more users, up to 150 feet in height.
      (4)   Installing a cable microcell network through the use of multiple
low-powered transmitters/ receivers attached to existing wireline systems, such
as conventional cable or telephone wires, or similar technology that does not
require the use of towers.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.141 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. The following provisions shall govern the issuance of special
use permits for towers or antennas by the Commission.
      (1)   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under §
158.140 or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to §
158.140, then a special use permit shall be required for the construction of a
tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of §§
158.240 through
158.252, except as modified in this section.
      (3)   In granting a special use permit, the Commission may impose
conditions to the extent the Commission conclude such conditions are necessary
to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining properties.
      (4)   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant
submits, whether civil, mechanical or electrical, shall be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (5)   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the information
described in this section and a non-refundable fee as established by resolution
of the City Council to reimburse the city for the costs of reviewing the
application.
   (B)   Towers.
      (1)   Information required. In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits pursuant to §§
158.240 through
158.252, applicants for a special use permit for a tower shall submit the
following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), comprehensive
land use plan classification of the site and all properties within the
applicable separation distances set forth in division (B)(5) below, adjacent
roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property lines, elevation
drawings of the proposed tower and any other structures, topography, parking
and other information deemed by the Zoning Administrator to be necessary to
assess compliance with this subchapter;
         (b)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable);
         (c)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties and unplatted
residentially zoned properties;
         (d)   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to §
158.138(C) shall be shown on an updated site plan or map. The applicant shall
also identify the type of construction of the existing tower(s) and the owner/
operator of the existing tower(s), if known;
         (e)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
         (f)   Method of fencing and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
         (g)   A notarized statement signed by the applicant(s) describing his,
her or their compliance with divisions (B)(4) and (B)(5) below and §
158.138(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (J), (L) and (M) and all applicable federal,
state or local laws;
         (h)   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether
construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas
for future users;
         (i)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the city;
         (j)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower; and
         (k)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the city based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
      (2)   Factors considered in granting special use permits for towers. In
addition to any standards for consideration of special use permit applications
pursuant to §§
158.240 through
158.252, the Commission shall consider the following factors in determining
whether to issue a special use permit, although the Commission may waive or
reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the
Commission conclude that the goals of this subchapter are better served
thereby:
         (a)   Height of the proposed tower;
         (b)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         (c)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         (d)   Surrounding topography;
         (e)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         (f)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         (g)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         (h)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or
alternative technology. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commission that no existing
tower, structure or alternative technology that does not require the use of
towers or structures can accommodate the applicant’s a proposed antenna. An
applicant shall submit information requested by the Commission related to the
availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or alternative
technology. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure
or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna may
consist of any of the following:
         (a)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements;
         (b)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements;
         (c)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment;
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna;
         (e)   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower
development are presumed to be unreasonable;
         (f)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable; and
         (g)   1.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology
that does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable
microcell network using multiple low-powered transmitters/ receivers attached
to a wireline system, is unsuitable.
            2.   Costs of alternative technology that exceed new tower or
antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology unsuitable.
      (4)   Setbacks. The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required; provided, however, that the
Commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if the goals of this
subchapter would be better served thereby:
         (a)   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least 75% of the
height of the tower from any adjoining lot line; and
         (b)   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements.
      (5)   Separation. The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the Commission may reduce the standard separation requirements if
the goals of this subchapter would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Separation from off-site uses/designated areas:
            1.   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the lot line of the off-site uses and/or designated areas as specified in
the following table, except as otherwise provided in the following table; and
            2.   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in the following table.
Off-Site Use/Designated Area Separation Distance
Off-Site Use/Designated Area             Separation Distance
Existing multi-family residential units  100 feet or 100% height of tower,
greater than duplex units                whichever is greater
Nonresidentially zoned lands or          None; only setbacks apply
nonresidential uses
Single-family or duplex residential      200 feet or 300% height of tower,
units1                                   whichever is greater
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is either 200 fee or 300 height of tower2,
platted or has preliminary subdivision   whichever is greater
plan approval which is not expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned     100 feet or 100% height of tower,
lands3                                   whichever is greater
Notes to Table:
1 Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
2 Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback line.
3 Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
 
         (b)   Separation distances between towers. Separation distances
between towers shall be applicable for and measured between the proposed tower
and preexisting towers. The separation distances shall be measured by drawing
or following a straight line between the base of the existing tower and the
proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of the proposed tower. The separation
distances (listed in linear feet) shall be as shown in the following table.
 
Existing Towers-Types
                            Lattice Guyed Monopole 75’ in Height or Monopole less 75’ in
                                          Greater                     Height
Guyed                       5,000   5,000 1,500                       750
Lattice                     5,000   5,000 1,500                       750
Monopole less 75’ in heigh750     750   750                         750
Monopole 75’ in height or 1,500   1,500 1,500                       750
greater
 
      (6)   Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate
anti-climbing device excluding barb or razor wire fencing; provided, however,
that the Commission may waive such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
      (7)   Landscaping. The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required;
provided, however, that the Commission may waive such requirements if the goals
of this subchapter would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least four feet wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
         (b)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         (c)   Existing mature tree growth and natural land forms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.142 BUILDINGS OR OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   (A)   Antennas mounted on structures or rooftops. The equipment cabinet or
structure used in association with antennas shall comply with the following.
      (1)   The cabinet or structure shall not contain more than 300 square
feet of gross floor area or be more than 15 feet in height. In addition, for
buildings and structures which are less than 65 feet in height, the related
unmanned equipment structure, if over 150 square feet of gross floor area or
ten feet in height, shall be located on the ground and shall not be located on
the roof of the structure.
      (2)   If the equipment structure is located on the roof of a building,
the area of the equipment structure and other equipment and structures shall
not occupy more than 150 square feet or 20% of the roof area.
      (3)   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes.
   (B)   Antennas mounted on utility poles or light poles. The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   In residential districts, the equipment cabinet or structure may be
located:
         (a)   In a front or side yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no
greater than four feet in height or 24 square feet of gross floor area and the
cabinet/structure is located a minimum of six feet from all lot lines. The
cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate
height of at least 42 to 48 inches and a planted height of at least 36 inches;
and/or
         (b)   In a rear yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no greater
than six feet in height or 24 square feet in gross floor area. The cabinet/
structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of
eight feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
      (2)   In commercial or industrial districts, the equipment cabinet or
structure shall be no greater than six feet in height or 64 square feet in
gross floor area. The structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen
hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet and a planted height of at least 36
inches. In all other instances, structures or cabinets shall be screened from
view of all residential properties which abut or are directly across the street
from the structure or cabinet by a solid fence six feet in height or an
evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet and a planted height of
at least 36 inches.
   (C)   Antennas located on towers. The related unmanned equipment structure
shall not contain more than 300 square feet of gross floor area or be more than
15 feet in height and shall be located in accordance with the minimum yard
requirements of the zoning district in which located.
   (D)   Modification of building size requirements. The requirements of
division (A) through (C) above may be modified by the Zoning Administrator in
the case of administratively approved uses or by the Commission in the case of
uses permitted by special use to encourage collocation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.143 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Generally. Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such
antenna or tower shall remove the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from
the city notifying the owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an
abandoned antenna or tower within said 90 days shall be grounds to remove the
tower or antenna at the owner’s expense. If there are two or more users of a
single tower, then this provision shall not become effective until all users
cease using the tower.
      (1)   The cabinet or structure shall not contain more than 300 square
feet of gross floor area or be more than 15 feet in height. In addition, for
buildings and structures which are less than 65 feet in height, the related
unmanned equipment structure, if over 150 square feet of gross floor area or
ten feet in height, shall be located on the ground and shall not be located on
the roof of the structure.
      (2)   If the equipment structure is located on the roof of a building,
the area of the equipment structure and other equipment and structures shall
not occupy more than 150 square feet or 20% of the roof area.
      (3)   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes.
   (B)   Antennas mounted on utility poles or light poles. The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   In residential districts, the equipment cabinet or structure may be
located:
         (a)   In a front or side yard provided the cabinet or structure is no
greater than four feet in height or 24 square feet of gross floor area and the
cabinet/structure is located a minimum of six feet from all lot lines. The
cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate
height of at least 42 to 48 inches and a planted height of at least 36 inches;
and/or
         (b)   In a rear yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no greater
than six feet in height or 24 square feet in gross floor area. The cabinet/
structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of
eight feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
      (2)   In commercial or industrial districts the equipment cabinet or
structure shall be no greater than six feet in height or 64 square feet in
gross floor area. The structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen
hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet and a planted height of at least 36
inches. In all other instances, structures or cabinets shall be screened from
view of all residential properties which abut or are directly across the street
from the structure or cabinet by a solid fence six feet in height or an
evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of eight feet and a planted height of
at least 36 inches.
   (C)   Antennas located on towers. The related unmanned equipment structure
shall not contain more than 300 square feet of gross floor area or be more than
15 feet in height and shall be located in accordance with the minimum yard
requirements of the zoning district in which located.
   (D)   Modification of building size requirements. The requirements of §
158.142(A) through (C) may be modified by the Zoning Administrator in the case
of administratively approved uses or by the Commission in the case of uses
permitted by special use to encourage collocation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.144 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Not expansion of nonconforming use. Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming
use or structure.
   (B)   Preexisting towers. Preexisting towers shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including replacement
with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be permitted on such
preexisting towers. New construction other than routine maintenance on a
preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Rebuilding damaged or destroyed nonconforming towers or antennas.
Notwithstanding §
158.143, bona fide nonconforming towers or antennas that are damaged or
destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain administrative approval
or a special use permit and without having to meet the separation requirements
specified in §
158.141(B)(4) and (B)(5). The type, height and location of the tower on-site
shall be of the same type and intensity as the original facility approval.
Building permits to rebuild the facility shall comply with the then applicable
building codes and shall be obtained within 180 days from the date the facility
is damaged or destroyed. If no permit is obtained or if said permit expires,
the tower or antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified in §
158.143.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 9.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** RESIDENTIAL/AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS ****
§ 158.155 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Residential and AT Agricultural Transition Districts set forth
herein are established in order to protect public health and promote public
safety, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and welfare.
   (B)   These general goals include, among others, the following specific
purposes:
      (1)   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious
fumes, offensive odors, noise, smoke, vibrations, dust, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors;
      (2)   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate
in each area against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic, especially through-
traffic, and to alleviate congestion by promoting off-street parking;
      (3)   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public
streets and other public facilities by controlling the density of population
through regulation of the bulk of buildings;
      (4)   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing
for ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof;
      (5)   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same zoning lot with residential development;
      (6)   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the
probable need for future residential expansion and to meet the need for
necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences, which increase
safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert objectionable
influences; and
      (7)   To promote the best use and development of residential and
agricultural land in accordance with a comprehensive land use plan, to promote
stability of residential development and protect the character and desirable
development and protect the value of land and improvements and so strengthen
the economic base of the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.156 ER ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   It is the purpose of the ER Estate Residential District to establish
regulations for larger single-family residential lot areas. It is anticipated
that neighborhoods in this district shall consist of very low density single-
family homes. Because of the large size of the lots in this district, the City
Council may waive the requirement that dwelling units be connected to city
sewer.
   (A)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story building hereafter erected shall have a total
ground floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages or other habitable spaces.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected shall have
a floor area measured from the outside of the exterior walls of not less than
1,000 square feet in area on the first floor, including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces not frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes.
   (B)   Accessory buildings. The following accessory buildings shall be
permitted on an ER Estate Residential District zoning lot:
      (1)   Up to a four-car garage, not exceeding 1,400 square feet;
      (2)   Swimming pool with a bath house not exceeding 300 square feet;
      (3)   Tennis courts no closer than 25 feet to the property line;
      (4)   Greenhouses (total square feet shall not exceed 300 square feet);
      (5)   Guest house up to 850 square feet in area if the lot is two acres
or more in size. The guest house shall not be rented or leased;
      (6)   Accessory buildings shall not be located in any required yard; and
      (7)   Accessory buildings shall only be permitted behind the building
setback line.
   (C)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   The minimum lot size is one acre (43,560 square feet) in area;
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet; and
      (3)   The minimum setbacks shall be:
         (a)   Front yard, 50 feet;
         (b)   Corner side yard setback, 50 feet;
         (c)   Interior side yard setback, 25 feet;
         (d)   Rear yard setback, 50 feet; and
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage shall be 30%.
   (D)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling on any one platted lot or parcel;
      (2)   Home occupations pursuant to §
158.050;
      (3)   Group homes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The group home houses no more than eight persons plus staff;
         (b)   The group home is licensed or certified by the state; and
         (c)   There is a minimum distance of 1,000 feet maintained between
group homes.
      (4)   Lots containing five or more acres may have up to three horses. A
stable or barn housing the horses shall be not less than 200 feet from the
property line. Horses shall not be permitted in the front yard. No stables or
other quarters shall be erected, maintained or used on any portion of the
property for stabling or accommodating any cattle, swine, goats, sheep, bees or
fowl; and
      (5)   Parks and recreational facilities when publicly owned.
   (E)   Special uses.
      (1)   Golf courses, including accessory driving ranges, bars,
restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms;
      (2)   Country clubs, including accessory driving ranges, bars,
restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms;
      (3)   Group homes pursuant to §
158.272; and
      (4)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.02) (Ord. 04-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 09-9-2, passed
- -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 23-7-2, passed 7-10-2023) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.157 R-1 ONE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story building hereafter erected shall have a total
ground floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages or other habitable spaces.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected shall have
a floor area measured from the outside of the exterior walls of not less than
1,000 square feet in area on the first floor, including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces not frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes.
   (B)   Building allowance. Only one principal building shall be permitted on
any one platted lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   No accessory building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   No part of an accessory building shall be located: closer than five
feet to the side lot line; closer than five feet to the rear lot line; and
closer than ten feet to the principal building.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall be constructed on any lot
prior to the start of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
      (4)   Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      (5)   Accessory building shall not cover more than 30% of the rear yard.
      (6)   Accessory buildings are only allowed behind the building setback
line.
   (D)   Lot and building requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 14,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 74 feet at the established building
line.
      (3)   Minimum principal building setbacks shall be:
         (a)   Front yard setback, 25 feet;
         (b)   Corner side yard setback, 25 feet;
         (c)   Interior side yard setback is 10% of the lot width at the
building line, but not less than ten feet;
         (d)   Rear yard setback, 30 feet;
         (e)   Maximum principal structure height, 30 feet; and
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage, 30%.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Group homes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The group home houses no more than eight persons plus staff;
         (b)   The group home is licensed or certified by the state; and
         (c)   There is a minimum distance of 1,000 feet maintained between
group homes.
      (3)   Home occupations as provided in §
158.050; and
      (4)   Parks and recreational areas when publicly owned.
   (F)   Special uses.
      (1)   Public or private schools (elementary, middle, high, junior
college, university), including playground and athletic fields;
      (2)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues;
      (3)   Convents, monastery and religious retreats;
      (4)   Golf courses, including accessory uses such as driving ranges,
bars, restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms. This does not include miniature
golf courses and pitch and putt courses;
      (5)   Public library;
      (6)   Museums;
      (7)   Cemeteries;
      (8)   Hospitals and nursing home;
      (9)   Planned developments;
      (10)   Public utilities;
      (11)   Group homes, subject to §
158.272; and
      (12)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   (G)   Prohibited. No building shall be erected or maintained on any portion
of a residential district for manufacturing or industrial purposes; and no
noxious or offensive trade shall be carried on upon any portion of a
residential district, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become
a legal nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.03) (Ord. 09-9-2, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.158 R-2 ONE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   It is the purpose of this district to establish regulations for single-
family dwellings in established residential neighborhoods. This district is not
to be used in newly developed areas.
   (A)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story building hereafter erected shall have a total
ground floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages or other habitable spaces.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected shall have
a floor area measured from the outside of the exterior walls of not less than
1,000 square feet in area on the first floor, including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces not frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes.
   (B)   Building allowance. Only one principal building shall be permitted on
any one platted lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   No accessory building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   No part of an accessory building shall be located: closer than five
feet to the side lot line; closer than five feet to the rear lot line; and
closer than ten feet to the principal building.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall be constructed on any lot
prior to the start of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
      (4)   Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      (5)   Accessory building shall not cover more than 30% of the rear yard.
      (6)   Accessory buildings are only allowed behind the building setback
line.
   (D)   Lot and building requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 60 feet at the established building
line.
      (3)   Minimum principal building setbacks shall be:
         (a)   Front yard setback, 25 feet;
         (b)   Corner side yard setback, 20 feet;
         (c)   Interior side yard setback is 10% of the lot width at the
building line, but not less than ten feet;
         (d)   Rear yard setback, 25 feet;
         (e)   Maximum principal structure height, 30 feet; and
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage, 30%.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Group homes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The group home houses no more than eight persons plus staff;
         (b)   The group home is licensed or certified by the state; and
         (c)   There is a minimum distance of 1,000 feet maintained between
group homes.
      (3)   Home occupations, as provided in §
158.050; and
      (4)   Parks and recreational areas when publicly owned.
   (F)   Special uses.
      (1)   Public or private schools (elementary, middle, high, junior
college, university), including playground and athletic fields;
      (2)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues;
      (3)   Convents, monastery and religious retreats;
      (4)   Golf courses, including accessory uses such as driving ranges,
bars, restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms. This does not include miniature
golf courses and pitch and putt courses;
      (5)   Public library;
      (6)   Museums;
      (7)   Cemeteries;
      (8)   Hospitals and nursing home;
      (9)   Planned developments;
      (10)   Public utilities; and
      (11)   Group homes, subject to §
158.272.
   (G)   Prohibited. No building shall be erected or maintained on any portion
of a residential district for manufacturing or industrial purposes; and no
noxious or offensive trade shall be carried on upon any portion of a
residential district nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become
a legal nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.04) (Ord. 09-9-2, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.159 R-3 ONE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   It is the purpose of this district to establish regulations for single-
family dwellings in established residential neighborhoods which are in
transition. This district is not to be used in newly developed areas.
   (A)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story building hereafter erected shall have a total
ground floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages or other habitable spaces.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected shall have
a floor area measured from the outside of the exterior walls of not less than
1,000 square feet in area on the first floor, including utility rooms, but
excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces not frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes.
      (3)   Two-family dwelling structures shall have a total floor area of not
less than 700 square feet for each dwelling unit, including utility rooms, but
excluding all other areas not used for eating and sleeping purposes.
   (B)   Building allowance. Only one principal building shall be permitted on
any one platted lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   No accessory building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   No part of an accessory building shall be located: closer than five
feet to the side lot line; closer than five feet to the rear lot line; and
closer than ten feet to the principal building.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall be constructed on any lot
prior to the start of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
      (4)   Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      (5)   Accessory building shall not cover more than 30% of the rear yard.
      (6)   Accessory buildings are only allowed behind the building setback
line.
   (D)   Lot and building requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 7,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 60 feet at the established building
line.
      (3)   Minimum principal building setbacks shall be:
         (a)   Front yard setback, 25 feet;
         (b)   Corner side yard setback, 20 feet;
         (c)   Interior side yard setback is 10% of the lot width at the
building line, but not less than ten feet;
         (d)   Rear yard setback, 25 feet;
         (e)   Maximum principal structure height, 30 feet; and
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage, 30%.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings: a special use permit shall be required for
all new construction that abuts a primary thoroughfare designated by a state or
federal highway number.
      (2)   Group homes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The group home houses no more than eight persons plus staff;
         (b)   The group home is licensed or certified by the state; and
         (c)   There is a minimum distance of 1,000 feet maintained between
group homes.
      (3)   Home occupations as provided in §
158.050; and
      (4)   Parks and recreational areas when publicly owned.
   (F)   Special uses.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
      (2)   Cemeteries;
      (3)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues;
      (4)   Convents, monastery and religious retreats;
      (5)   Conversion of single-family dwelling into two-family dwelling only
when the following conditions are met:
         (a)   When divided, each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 600
square feet in floor area, including space used for utility rooms, but
excluding all other areas not used for living and/or sleeping purposes;
         (b)   On-site paved parking area shall be provided. Parking areas
shall not be in the required yard setback areas with the exception of the
driveway; there shall be a minimum of two parking spaces for each dwelling; and
         (c)   All other building and yard requirements for this district must
be met. Conversion of existing structures (not including newly constructed
structures) into offices for professionals such as physicians, dentists,
attorneys-at-law, architects, engineers, music teachers, artists, teachers,
accountants, photographers, real estate agents, insurance agents, public
stenographers, brokers, business consultants and other professional offices as
determined by the Commission. These properties must meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Paved parking approved by the City Council;
            2.   All parking shall be behind the front building line;
            3.   Signage shall be approved by the City Council; and
            4.   The subject property shall abut a state designated highway.
      (6)   Golf courses, including accessory uses such as driving ranges,
bars, restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms. This does not include miniature
golf courses and pitch and putt courses;
      (7)   Group homes, subject to §
158.272.
      (8)   Hospitals and nursing homes;
      (9)   Museums;
      (10)   Planned developments;
      (11)   Public library;
      (12)   Public or private schools (elementary, middle, high, junior
college, university), including playground and athletic fields;
      (13)   Public utilities; and
      (14)   Two-family dwellings.
   (G)   Prohibited. No building shall be erected or maintained on any portion
of a residential district for manufacturing or industrial purposes; and no
noxious or offensive trade shall be carried on upon any portion of a
residential district, nor shall anything be done thereon which may be or become
a legal nuisance to the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.05) (Ord. 04-5-5, passed - -; Ord. 09-9-2, passed
- -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.160 R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   It is the purpose of this district to establish regulations for multiple-
family dwelling districts. These regulations establish limitations on the use
and character of development so as to take advantage of, and to avoid conflict
with, natural topography and existing development.
   (A)   Dwelling standards.
      (1)   Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected shall have a total
ground floor area of not less than 1,000 square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages or other habitable spaces.
      (2)   Every dwelling of more than one story hereafter erected shall have
a floor area, measured from the outside of the exterior walls of not less than
1,000 square feet on the first floor, including utility rooms, but excluding
cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces not used
frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
      (3)   Two-family dwelling structures shall have a total floor area of not
less than 700 square feet for each dwelling unit, including utility rooms, but
excluding all other areas not used for eating or sleeping purposes.
      (4)   Multiple-family dwelling structures shall have a total floor area
of not less than the following.
         (a)   Efficiency apartments shall have a floor area of no less than
600 square feet per dwelling unit.
         (b)   One bedroom apartments shall have a total floor area of not less
than 800 square feet per dwelling unit.
         (c)   Apartments of more than one bedroom shall have a total floor
area of not less than that required for a one bedroom apartment plus 150 square
feet of floor space for each additional bedroom.
   (B)   Building allowance. Only one principal building shall be erected on
any single platted lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   No accessory building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (2)   No part of an accessory building shall be located closer than: ten
feet to the side lot line; five feet to the rear lot line; and ten feet to the
principal building.
      (3)   No accessory building or structure shall be constructed on any lot
prior to the start of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory.
      (4)   Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      (5)   Accessory building shall not cover more than 30% of the rear yard.
      (6)   Accessory buildings shall only be permitted behind the building
setback line.
   (D)   Lot and building requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The minimum lot area shall be as follows:
            1.   Single-family dwelling, 14,000 square feet;
            2.   Two-family dwelling, 14,000 square feet; and
            3.   Multiple-family dwelling, 5,000 square feet for each dwelling
unit but not less than 14,000 square feet total. This standard applies to new
construction.
         (b)   This standard also applies to the conversion of homes originally
constructed as single-family dwelling into a building which has more than three
dwelling units within one structure.
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 60 feet at the established building
line.
      (3)   (a)   The minimum principal building setbacks shall be:
            1.   Front yard, 25 feet. For buildings exceeding 25 feet in
height, the minimum front year shall be increased by one foot for each two feet
or fraction thereof by which the building exceeds 25 feet;
            2.   Corner side yard, 20 feet;
            3.   Interior side yard, 10% of the lot width at the building line
but no less than ten feet; and
            4.   Rear yard, 25 feet.
         (b)   For through lots, the setback from each street shall be the same
as the front yard requirements.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage is 30%.
      (5)   Maximum height is limited to three stories and 50 feet.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Group homes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The group home houses no more than eight persons plus staff;
         (b)   The group home is licensed or certified by the state; and
         (c)   There is a minimum distance of 1,000 feet maintained between
group homes.
      (2)   Home occupations pursuant to §
158.050;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (4)   Parks and recreation areas when publicly owned;
      (5)   Single-family dwellings; and
      (6)   Two-family dwellings.
   (F)   Special uses.
      (1)   Barber shops and/or beauty shops;
      (2)   Bed and breakfasts;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues;
      (5)   Convents, monastery and religious retreats;
      (6)   Convenience stores;
      (7)   Conversion of existing structures (not including newly constructed
structures) into offices for professionals such as physicians, dentists,
attorneys-at-law, architects, engineers, music teachers, artists, teachers,
accountants, photographers, real estate agents, insurance agents, public
stenographers, brokers, business consultants and other professional offices as
determined by the Commission. These properties must meet the following
conditions:
         (a)   Paved parking approved by the City Council;
         (b)   All parking must be behind the front building line;
         (c)   Signage shall be approved by the City Council; and
         (d)   The subject property shall abut a state designated highway.
      (8)   Drug stores;
      (9)   Golf courses, including accessory uses such as driving ranges,
bars, restaurants, meeting and banquet rooms. This does not include miniature
golf courses and pitch and putt courses;
      (10)   Group homes, subject to §
158.272;
      (11)   Hospitals;
      (12)   Medical and dental offices and group medical centers;
      (13)   Mobile home and manufactured home park designed and intended for
residential purposes, provided they meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling units only;
         (b)   Each dwelling unit shall be located on a lot which has a minimum
size of 5,000 square feet in area with a minimum lot width of 35 feet;
         (c)   Each lot must front on a street;
         (d)   Streets (including public and private) shall have a minimum of a
60-foot right-of way and a pavement width of 30 feet (face to face). The
pavement structure shall consist of six-inch BBC base, two-inch Class B surface
or six-inch PC concrete, or ten-inch aggregate base, Type B (100% crushed), 22-
inch Class I surface (12-inch binder and one-foot surface). Curb and cutter (M-
6.12, B-6.12) are required. A four-foot wide sidewalk is required unless an
off-street system is provided and approved by the City Council;
         (e)   Each unit shall be properly anchored by a method which is
approved by the city;
         (f)   Each unit will contain a NOAA early warning weather radio;
         (g)   Each park will have a minimum of ten units;
         (h)   Common recreational areas shall be provided as follows: up to 20
units, 700 square feet per unit; 21 to 50 units, 14,000 square feet plus 600
feet per unit in excess of 20 units; and 51 to 100 units, 32,000 square feet
plus 400 feet per unit in excess of 51 units;
         (i)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces per individual lot
shall be provided;
         (j)   All lots must be serviced by city water and sewer. The size of
the mains shall be determined by the City Engineer;
         (k)   All utilities shall be placed underground; and
         (l)   No sales of new or used units by dealers or brokers shall be
permitted unless the unit has been placed on a lot and connected to city sewer
and water.
      (14)   Museums;
      (15)   Planned developments;
      (16)   Public library;
      (17)   Public or private schools (elementary, middle, high, junior
college, university), including playground and athletic fields;
      (18)   Public utilities;
      (19)   Religious retreats;
      (20)   Restaurants; and
      (21)   Rest homes, nursing homes hospitals, sanitariums which are
licensed and/or registered.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.161 AT AGRICULTURAL TRANSITION DISTRICT.
   The AT Agricultural Transition District is intended to anticipate expansion
of the city into agricultural areas (lands). At the time agricultural areas are
annexed into the city, the dwelling standards, building allowance, accessory
buildings and lot and building requirements of the County Zoning Ordinance, as
amended September 15, 2009, are applicable until such time as the property
owners petition for re-classification pursuant to this chapter. The following
uses are designated for the AT Agricultural Transition District.
Use Type of Use
Use                                                         Type of Use
Adult-use cannabis craft grower                             Special use
Adult-use cannabis cultivation center                       Special use
Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization                  Special use
Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser          Special use
Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor     Special use
Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter Special use
Animal: exotic, breeding and training                       Special use
Animal: show, circus                                        Temporary
Arena, equine enclosed                                      Special use
Auction                                                     Temporary
Beach, private                                              Permitted
Beach, public                                               Special use
Blacksmith shop (horse related)                             Permitted
Cemetery                                                    Special use
Christmas tree sales                                        Temporary
Clinic, large animal                                        Special use
Clinic, small animal                                        Special use
Single-family dwelling                                      Special use
Electrical distribution center (non-exempt)                 Special use
Festival                                                    Temporary
Flea market                                                 Temporary
Game breeding (for spot)                                    Special use
Golf, country club                                          Special use
Golf, driving range                                         Special use
Grain elevator, commercial                                  Special use
Greenhouse, commercial                                      Special use
Horse farm                                                  Permitted
Kennel, commercial                                          Special use
Kennel, private                                             Special use
Nursery, commercial                                         Special use
Public service, fire and rescue                             Special use
Public service, police                                      Special use
Roadside sales stand for produce grown on premises          Special use
Stable, private                                             Special use
Stable, public                                              Special use
Stable, public (i.e., livery)                               Special use
Tent theater, religious meeting, festival                   Temporary
Tower                                                       Special use
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 10.07) (Ord. 19-10-2, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2,
passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 23-7-2, passed 7-10-2023)
**** BUSINESS DISTRICTS ****
§ 158.175 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The business districts set forth herein are established to protect
public health and promote public safety, comfort, convenience and the general
welfare, and to protect the economic base of the city and the value of
property.
   (B)   These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a
well-considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate
locations for the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and
strengthening the economic base of the city;
      (2)   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create
noise, odors, hazards, unsightliness or which may generate excessive traffic;
      (3)   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacent to or
inclusion in a residential area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to such areas to offset the disadvantage;
      (4)   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion; and
      (5)   To provide for the establishment of off-street parking facilities,
permitted and required, so as to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote
shopping convenience and business prosperity.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.176 B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. A pedestrian-oriented district geographically designated
within the central core of the city in which retail and service uses are
provided.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   Retail/office only. All establishments located in this district
shall deal directly with patrons.
      (2)   Enclosed activities. All activities must be located in an enclosed
building except as indicated in division (B)(3) below.
      (3)   Enclosed activities. Merchandise may be displayed outside but may
not use more than 25% of the enclosed building square footage.
      (4)   Processing incidental. Any processing or treatment of goods on any
premises must be clearly incidental to the retail business conducted on such
premises.
      (5)   Drive-in/through. In this district, a special use permit is
required to establish any business that will offer goods or services directly
to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles.
      (6)   Parking. See §
158.119.
      (7)   Signs. See
Chapter 151.
      (8)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms. Unless a special use permit has
been issued, dwelling units and lodging rooms shall not be permitted below the
second floor. This is not applicable to hotels and motels.
      (9)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located
within this district shall be stored in covered containers placed in areas
screened by a screening fence or densely planted evergreen hedge of adequate
height to screen the refuse containers from adjoining properties and the
street. Nonconforming refuse containers existing shall comply with this chapter
within one year after the adoption of this chapter, which is August 26, 2003.
      (10)   Only one principal building may be erected on any one lot.
   (C)   Lot and building requirements. Every building erected in this district
shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: None;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 20 feet at the established building line;
      (3)   Minimum lot depth: None;
      (4)   Minimum setback: Generally none required except as necessary to
achieve compliance with applicable off-street parking and loading requirements;
      (5)   Maximum floor area ratio: None;
      (6)   Maximum percentage of lot building coverage: None; and
      (7)   Height requirements: Maximum height of three stories or 36 feet.
   (D)   Permitted uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district are
observed, the following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Auditoriums, meeting rooms and other places of assembly;
      (2)   Banks, savings and loans;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Clubs and lodges;
      (5)   Dry cleaning operations (including on-site processing);
      (6)   Dwelling units above the first floor only;
      (7)   Funeral establishments;
      (8)   Hotels and motels;
      (9)   Laundries;
      (10)   Libraries;
      (11)   Mass transit facilities;
      (12)   Museums;
      (13)   Offices;
      (14)   Printing and publishing (under 5,000 square feet in area);
      (15)   Restaurants;
      (16)   Retail establishments;
      (17)   Schools, music studios, dance studios;
      (18)   Service establishments;
      (19)   Taverns/saloons; and
      (20)   Theaters (indoors).
   (E)   Special uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district are
observed, the city may allow the following uses special use permit:
      (1)   Any use that involves a retail or service activity which is less
than 25% outside completely enclosed building. Outside activity which is over
25% is prohibited;
      (2)   Any use such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, automobile
service stations that offer goods or services directly to customers waiting in
parked vehicles or that sell food or beverages for consumption in parked motor
vehicles on the premises;
      (3)   Auto service station;
      (4)   Convenience store with fuel sales;
      (5)   Dwelling units if located below the second story, except in hotels
and motels;
      (6)   Planned development;
      (7)   Public facilities;
      (8)   Recreational facilities, public and private;
      (9)   Restaurant/saloons with live entertainment;
      (10)   Tattoo parlors; and
      (11)   Utility stations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11.02) (Ord. 04-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 21-5-1, passed
- -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.177 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to accommodate and regulate commercial/business
development outside of the B-1 Central Business District. These typically
require direct access to major streets and large lots for off-street parking
and loading.
   (A)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   Uses. These uses shall deal directly with consumers.
      (2)   Unenclosed activities. In this district, outside display of
inventory is allowable up to 25% of the indoor floor space under the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is on private property; and
         (b)   The area is not designated as parking or required open space.
Any outside activity in excess of 25% of the total enclosed area requires a
special use permit.
      (3)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located
within this district shall be stored in covered containers placed in visually
screened areas. All nonconforming refuse containers shall comply with this
section within one year from the effective date of this chapter, which is
August 26, 2003.
      (4)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting
any residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence or closely-planted
shrubbery) at least six feet high and of sufficient density to completely block
the view from the adjacent residential property, shall be installed.
      (5)   Yard setbacks. Any accessory building shall meet yard setback
requirements.
      (6)   Principal building. Only one principal building shall be permitted
on a zoning lot.
      (7)   Parking. Pursuant to §
158.119.
      (8)   Signs. Pursuant to
Chapter 151.
      (9)   Drive-in/through. In this district, a special use permit is
required to establish any business that will offer goods or services directly
to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles.
   (B)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in
this district shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 15,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet at the established building line;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks: front yard, 50 feet; corner side yard, 50 feet;
side yards, 25 feet; and rear yard, 25 feet;
      (4)   Maximum floor area ratio: Two square feet of floor space for each
one square foot of lot area;
      (5)   Maximum percentage of lot building coverage: 50%;
      (6)   Height requirements: Maximum height of three stories or 50 feet;
and
      (7)   General building setbacks: In addition to any other building
setback or yard requirement contained herein, every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a setback from the public street in
accordance with the following requirements: primary thoroughfare designated by
a state or federal highway number: 75 feet from the property line or 150 feet
from the centerline of the right-of-way, whichever distance is greater.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district are
observed, the following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Auditoriums, meeting rooms and other places of assembly;
      (2)   Automobile car wash/laundry;
      (3)   Banks, savings and loans;
      (4)   Blueprinting and photostating;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Churches;
      (7)   Clubs and lodges;
      (8)   Dry cleaning operations (including on-site processing);
      (9)   Funeral homes;
      (10)   Hotels and motels;
      (11)   Libraries;
      (12)   Mass transit facilities;
      (13)   Museums;
      (14)   Offices;
      (15)   Printing and publishing (under 5,000 square feet in area);
      (16)   Radio and television broadcasting;
      (17)   Restaurants;
      (18)   Retail establishments;
      (19)   Schools, music studios, dance studios;
      (20)   Service establishments;
      (21)   Taverns/saloons;
      (22)   Theaters (indoors); and
      (23)   Wholesale when used in connection with retail.
   (D)   Special uses.
      (1)   Any use that involves a retail or service activity conducted more
than 25% outside completely enclosed buildings;
      (2)   Any use, such as a drive-in restaurant, drive-in bank or automobile
service station, that offers goods or services directly to customers waiting in
parked vehicles or that sell food or beverages for consumption in parked motor
vehicles on the premises;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
      (7)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter;
      (8)   Automobile repair;
      (9)   Automobile service station;
      (10)   Dwelling units, if located above the first story, except in hotels
and motels;
      (11)   Heating, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing, general
contracting; retail, wholesale;
      (12)   Motor vehicle sales, new and used;
      (13)   Movie and stage outdoor theaters;
      (14)   Planned developments;
      (15)   Printing and publishing (over 5,000 square feet in area);
      (16)   Public facilities;
      (17)   Recreational facilities (public and private);
      (18)   Restaurants with live entertainment;
      (19)   Tattoo parlors; and
      (20)   Utility stations.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11.03) (Ord. 04-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 19-10-2,
passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.178 B-3 REGIONAL SHOPPING DISTRICT.
   This district is intended to accommodate and regulate business developments
which are directly and indirectly accessed from major arterial roadways.
   (A)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   In this district, all activities shall be conducted within enclosed
buildings with the exception that an outdoor area up to 25% of the indoor floor
space may be used for outdoor sales and display of inventory under the
following conditions:
         (a)   On private property; and
         (b)   Area is not designated as parking or required open space.
      (2)   All refuse generated by facilities located within this district
shall be stored in covered containers placed in visually screened areas.
Nonconforming refuse containers shall comply within one year after the
effective date of this chapter, which is August 26, 2003.
      (3)   Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence at least six feet high and
of such density to completely block the view from adjacent residential
property) shall be installed.
      (4)   Uses shall consist of office, financial or retail-type activities.
      (5)   Signs, see
Chapter 151.
      (6)   Parking, see §
158.119.
      (7)   Only one principal building shall be erected on any one lot.
   (B)   Lot and building requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: five acres;
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet fronting a major roadway; other
roadways, 150 feet at the established building line;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks: front yard, 50 feet; corner side yard, 50 feet;
side yards, 35 feet; and rear yard, 35 feet;
      (4)   Maximum floor area ratio: one-quarter square foot of floor space
for each one square foot of lot area;
      (5)   Maximum percentage of lot coverage: 50% (all structures, including
principal buildings and accessory buildings shall be included in the 50%);
      (6)   Accessory buildings shall meet the minimum setbacks;
      (7)   Height requirements: Maximum height of three stories or 50 feet;
and
      (8)   General building setbacks: In addition to any other building
setback or yard requirement contained herein, every building hereafter erected
or enlarged shall provide and maintain a setback from the public street in
accordance with the following requirements: Primary thoroughfare designated by
a state or federal highway number: 75 feet from the property line or 150 feet
from the centerline of the right-of-way, whichever distance is greater.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Animal hospitals (no outside kennel);
      (2)   Department stores;
      (3)   Dry cleaning operations (including on-site processing);
      (4)   Financial institutions;
      (5)   Hotels, motels;
      (6)   Medical, dental and general offices;
      (7)   Movie and stage theaters, indoor;
      (8)   Piano and musical, retail only;
      (9)   Professional offices;
      (10)   Restaurants;
      (11)   Retail establishments;
      (12)   Service establishments;
      (13)   Supermarkets;
      (14)   Taverns (including live entertainment); and
      (15)   Variety stores.
   (D)   Special uses.
      (1)   Any use that requires commercial, service or storage activities
conducted outdoors, amounting to more than 25% of indoor floor space;
      (2)   Any use, such as a drive-in restaurant, drive-in bank or automobile
service station, that offers goods or services directly to customers waiting in
parked vehicles or that sell food or beverages for consumption in parked motor
vehicles on the premises;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
      (7)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter;
      (8)   Auto repair and automobile service stations;
      (9)   Drive-in theaters;
      (10)   Motor vehicles sales, new and used;
      (11)   Public facilities;
      (12)   Tattoo parlors;
      (13)   Utility stations;
      (14)   Planned development, commercial; and
      (15)   Planned developments, mixed use with residential must meet the
following requirements for residential uses:
         (a)   Lot size: five acres;
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 250 feet fronting any major roadway; fronting
other roadways, 100 feet at established building line
         (c)   Minimum setbacks:
 
Yard             Major Roadway Other Roadway
Corner side yard 50 feet       30 feet
Front yard       60 feet       40 feet
Rear yard        40 feet       30 feet
Side yards       40 feet       20 feet
 
         (d)   Maximum residential density: 12 units per acre;
         (e)   Minimum unit size: 600 square feet;
         (f)   Minimum percentage of lot coverage: 35%; and
         (g)   Parking and access regulations pursuant to §§
158.115 through
158.122 shall apply.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11.04) (Ord. 04-3-1, passed - -; Ord. 19-10-2,
passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.179 BP BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the BP Business Park District is to provide a
course of predictability in business park development, set a minimum level of
standards by which a business park can be developed and establish a regulatory
framework for the planning and development of future business and manufacturing
growth.
   (B)   Use restrictions. All permitted uses in this zoning district are
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Performance standards. Any production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, repair or storage of goods, materials or products shall
conform to the performance standards set forth in §§
158.220 through
158.229.
      (2)   Special uses. Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, no
outside display, sale or storage of materials (raw, semi-finished or finished
in nature), vehicles (including tractor trailers), equipment, merchandise and
other similar goods or containers, shall not be permitted except by the
issuance of a special use permit as provided in §§
158.240 through
158.252.
      (3)   Outside activity. Outside display of retail inventory shall be
permitted on up to 25% of the indoor floor space with the following conditions:
the area is located within the zoning lot, and the area is not designated as
parking or required open space. Any outside activity in excess of 25% of the
total indoor floor space shall require a special use permit as provided in §§
158.240 through
158.252.
      (4)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located
within this zoning district shall be stored in covered containers that are
located in an area that is not visible from the street. Screening shall enclose
all refuse containers.
      (5)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting a
residential zoning district, screening (a wall, solid fence or closely planted
shrubbery) at least six feet high and of sufficient density to completely block
the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.
      (6)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use shall meet the same required yard
setbacks as required for the principal building.
      (7)   Principal building. Only one principal building shall be permitted
on any zoning lot.
      (8)   Parking. Parking shall be pursuant to §
158.119.
      (9)   Signs. Signage shall be pursuant to
Chapter 151.
      (10)   Landscaping. Any new construction after January 1, 2007, shall
comply with the requirements of §§
153.25 through
153.39.
   (C)   Lot and building requirements. Every principal building erected in
this zoning district shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Yard requirements. In addition to any other building setback or
yard requirement contained herein, every building hereafter erected or enlarged
shall provide and maintain a setback from a public street in accordance with
the following requirements:
         (a)   Primary thoroughfare designated by a state or federal highway
number. Seventy-five feet from the property line or 150 feet from the
centerline of the right-of-way, whichever distance is greater;
         (b)   Minimum setbacks. Front yard, 40 feet; corner side yard, 40
feet; interior side yard, 20 feet; and rear yard, 20 feet; and
         (c)   Transitional yards. Where a side or rear lot coincides with a
side or rear lot line in an adjacent residential zoning district, a yard shall
be provided along such side or rear lot line not less than 50 feet in depth and
shall be screened as provided in division (B)(5) above. Where a side or a rear
lot line coincides with a side or rear lot yard in an adjacent business
district, a yard shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not less
than 30 feet in depth.
      (2)   Maximum percentage of lot building coverage. For a one-story
building, 50%; for buildings containing two or more stories, 60%. A mezzanine
is not considered a story.
   (D)   Permitted uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this zoning
district are observed, the following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Animal hospitals (with indoor kennels);
      (2)   Assembly, production, processing, wholesaling, warehousing or
manufacturing of any commodity, from semi-finished (other than raw) materials,
provided explosives, flammable materials, nuclear materials and/or livestock
are not involved;
      (3)   Animal retail sales;
      (4)   Auditoriums, meeting rooms and other places of assembly;
      (5)   Automobile car wash;
      (6)   Banks, savings and loans;
      (7)   Blueprinting and photostating;
      (8)   Bowling alleys;
      (9)   Building materials sales with indoor storage;
      (10)   Churches;
      (11)   Clubs and lodges;
      (12)   Dry cleaning operations (including on-site processing);
      (13)   Greenhouses with indoor storage;
      (14)   Funeral homes;
      (15)   Healthcare and rehabilitation facilities not involving overnight
visits;
      (16)   Heating, air conditioning, electrical, plumbing, general
contracting, retail, wholesale, with indoor storage;
      (17)   Hospitality;
      (18)   Hotels and motels;
      (19)   Indoor recreation facilities;
      (20)   Institutional;
      (21)   Library;
      (22)   Local cartage and express facility, provided explosives, flammable
materials, nuclear materials and/or livestock are not involved, with no outside
vehicle storage;
      (23)   Mass transit facilities;
      (24)   Museums;
      (25)   Offices;
      (26)   Printing and publishing;
      (27)   Public utility and transportation facilities, including shelters,
terminals, parking areas and service buildings;
      (28)   Radio and television broadcasting;
      (29)   Railroad right-of-way;
      (30)   Research and development facility or parks, provided explosives,
flammable materials, nuclear materials and/or livestock are not involved;
      (31)   Restaurants;
      (32)   Retail establishments;
      (33)   Schools, music studios and dance studios;
      (34)   Service establishments;
      (35)   Sleep research facilities with overnight visits;
      (36)   Taverns, saloons; and
      (37)   Theater (indoor).
   (E)   Special uses. Provided all the restrictions for this zoning district
are observed, the following special uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Any use that involves a retail or service activity that is
conducted on more than 25% outside of a completely enclosed building;
      (2)   Any use, such as a drive-in restaurant, drive-in bank or automobile
service station that offers good or services directly to customers waiting in
parked vehicles or that sell food or beverages for consumption in parked motor
vehicles on the premises;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
      (7)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter
automobile repair;
      (8)   Automobile service station;
      (9)   Dwelling units if located above the first story, except in hotels
and motels;
      (10)   Fuel sales and storage;
      (11)   Motor vehicles sales, new and used;
      (12)   Movie and stage outdoor theaters;
      (13)   Non-retail outdoor storage;
      (14)   Outdoor recreation facilities;
      (15)   Outdoor storage tanks;
      (16)   Planned developments;
      (17)   Recreational facilities (public and private);
      (18)   Restaurants with live entertainment;
      (19)   Utility stations; and
      (20)   Wireless communication facilities.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 11.05) (Ord. 06-12-3, passed - -; Ord. 19-10-2,
passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
**** ORI OFFICE RESEARCH AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT ****
§ 158.190 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the ORI Office, Research and Light Industrial District (“ORI
District”) is to provide areas within the community for low intensity
manufacturing, offices, research facilities, research parks.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.191 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   All permitted uses are subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Uses not explicitly provided as permitted or special uses in the ORI
District under this subchapter are prohibited altogether.
   (B)   Parking: See §
158.119.
   (C)   Signs: See
Chapter 151.
   (D)   Accessory buildings shall not be located in any required yard.
   (E)   All permitted uses are subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the performance
standards set forth in §§
158.240 through
158.252.
      (2)   No outside display, sale or storage of materials (raw, semi-
finished or finished in nature), vehicles (including tractor trailers),
equipment, merchandise and other similar goods or containers, shall be
permitted except by issuance of a special permit pursuant to §§
158.265 through
158.277.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.192 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot size requirements. None.
   (B)   Yard requirements. In addition to any other building setback or yard
requirement contained herein every building hereafter erected or enlarged shall
provide and maintain a setback from the public street in accordance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Primary thoroughfare designated by a state or federal highway
number: 75 feet from the property line or 150 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-way, whichever distance is greater;
      (2)   Front yard: Not less than 40 feet in depth along every front lot
line;
      (3)   Interior side yard: Not less than 20 feet in depth along each
interior side lot line;
      (4)   Corner side yard: Not less than 40 feet in depth;
      (5)   Rear yard: Not less than 20 feet in depth along each rear lot line;
and
      (6)   Transitional yards: Where a side or rear lot line in an ORI
District coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residence
district, a yard shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not less
than 100 feet in depth and shall contain landscaping and plantings suitable to
provide a year around effective 25% screen. Where a side or rear lot line in an
ORI District coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent business
district, a yard shall be provided along such side or rear lot line not less
than 60 feet in depth and shall contain landscaping and planting suitable to
provide a 25% screen year-round.
   (C)   Principal buildings. Only one principal building shall be permitted on
any one zoning lot.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.193 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses in the ORI District are:
   (A)   Accessory retail sales operations and display of merchandise produced
on the premises;
   (B)   Any establishment, the principal use of which is manufacturing,
fabricating, processing, light assembly, storing, cleaning or servicing of
materials, goods or products, provided that operations are conducted within a
completely enclosed building and that operations conform with the performance
standards and other applicable requirements of this subchapter;
   (C)   Auditoriums and theaters;
   (D)   Banks and financial institutions, including drive-in and drive-through
facilities;
   (E)   Business and professional offices;
   (F)   Computer and/or data processing centers;
   (G)   Corporate offices;
   (H)   Cultural facilities;
   (I)   Engineering and testing facilities;
   (J)   Medical and dental clinics and offices;
   (K)   Production facilities for prototype products;
   (L)   Research clinics and laboratories, including accessory pilot
operations; and
   (M)   Show room space.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.194 SPECIAL USES.
   Special uses in the ORI District are:
   (A)   Commercial uses located within permitted and special uses, including
barber shops and beauty salons; day care centers and pre-schools; drugstores;
dry cleaning and laundry establishments; food stores; florists; gift shops;
letter and parcel mailing services; restaurants, including accessory cocktail
lounges, outdoor customer seating, musical entertainment and dancing; shoe
repair shops and tailor shops;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter hotels and
motels;
   (G)   Planned developments;
   (H)   General aviation planned developments;
   (I)   Public service and facility uses;
   (J)   Public utilities;
   (K)   Schools: vocational, technical, business, data processing, electronic
and corporate training centers; and
   (L)   Uses ancillary to permitted and other special uses, including meeting
and conference facilities, lodging facilities, restaurants and recreational
facilities primarily for the private use of the employees, its subsidiaries,
affiliates, franchisees and business clients; storage, service and maintenance
buildings and areas; central heating and air conditioning plants; dwellings for
caretakers, watchpersons and operators.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 12.05) (Ord. 19-10-2, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2,
passed 8-26-2002)
**** MANUFACTURING DISTRICT ****
§ 158.205 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the M Manufacturing District (“M District”) is to provide
areas within the community for manufacturing facilities, research facilities,
research park, warehouses and wholesale manufacturing. It is intended that this
particular district will generally provide for manufacturing of an assembly
nature from finished goods, warehousing and wholesale activities. Supportive
services for manufacturing are generally of a non-retail or personal service
character and should be encouraged to locate in this district.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.206 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   All permitted uses are subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of goods, materials or products shall conform with the performance
standards set forth in §§
158.240 through
158.252.
   (B)   No outside display, sale or storage of materials (raw, semi-finished
or finished in nature), vehicles (including tractor trailers), equipment,
merchandise and other similar goods or containers, shall be permitted except by
issuance of a special permit as addressed in §§
158.265 through
158.277. This requirement does not apply to greenhouses without side storage.
   (C)   Parking: See §§
158.115 through
158.122.
   (D)   Signs:
      (1)   See
Chapter 151.
      (2)   Free-standing signs, with the exception of monument and shopping
center identification signs, are prohibited.
   (E)   Accessory buildings shall not be located in any required yard.
   (F)   Only one principal building shall be permitted on any one lot.
   (G)   Free-standing signs, with the exception of monument and shopping
center identification signs.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13.02) (Ord. 03-1-8, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.207 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot size requirements. None.
   (B)   Yard requirements. In addition to any other building setback or yard
requirement contained herein every building hereafter erected or enlarged shall
provide and maintain a setback from the public street in accordance with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Primary thoroughfare designated by a state or federal highway
number: 75 feet from the property line or 150 feet from the centerline of the
right-of-w ay, whichever distance is greater;
      (2)   Front yard: Not less than 40 feet in depth along every front lot
line;
      (3)   Interior side yard: Not less than 20 feet in depth along each
interior side lot line;
      (4)   Corner side yard: Not less than 40 feet in depth;
      (5)   Rear yard: Not less than 20 feet in depth along each rear lot line;
and
      (6)   Transitional yards:
         (a)   Where a side or rear lot line in a M-District coincides with a
side or rear lot line in an adjacent residence district, a yard shall be
provided along such side or rear lot line not less than 100 feet in depth and
shall contain landscaping and plantings suitable to provide a year around
effective 25% screen;
         (b)   Where a side or rear lot line in a M-District coincides with a
side or rear lot line in an adjacent business district, a yard shall be
provided along such side or rear lot line not less than 60 feet in depth and
shall contain landscaping and planting suitable to provide a year around 25%
screen; and
         (c)   Where manufacturing lots front on a street that constitutes the
boundary line between manufacturing and residential districts or between
manufacturing and business districts, all such manufacturing lots shall provide
a front yard of not less than 60 feet in depth.
   (C)   Floor area ratio.
      (1)   Not to exceed 0.4 for one-story buildings.
      (2)   Not to exceed 0.6 for buildings, containing two or more stories. A
mezzanine is not considered a story.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.208 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of this district are observed, the
following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Animal hospitals (with outside kennels).
   (B)   Assembly, production, processing, wholesaling or warehousing or
manufacturing of any commodity from semi-finished (other than raw) materials,
provided explosives, flammable materials, nuclear materials or livestock are
not involved;
   (C)   Building materials sales with outside storage;
   (D)   Equipment sales and service;
   (E)   Greenhouses with outside storage;
   (F)   Local cartage and express facilities, provided explosives, flammable
materials, nuclear materials or livestock are not involved;
   (G)   Printing and publishing;
   (H)   Public utility;
   (I)   Public transportation facilities, including shelters, terminals,
parking areas and service buildings;
   (J)   Railroad right-of-way; and
   (K)   Research and development facilities or parks, provided explosives,
flammable materials, nuclear materials or livestock are not involved.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.209 SPECIAL USES.
   Provided all the restrictions of this district are observed, the following
special uses are permitted:
   (A)   Adult businesses pursuant to other provisions of this chapter and
Chapters
113 and
115;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter;
   (G)   Fuel sales and storage;
   (H)   Asphaltic and concrete plants;
   (I)   Building contractor’s office with outside storage;
   (J)   Dwelling units for watchperson’s quarters;
   (K)   Outside storage on non-asphaltic or concrete pavement; and
   (L)   Planned developments of not less than 20 acres.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 13.05) (Ord. 19-10-2, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2,
passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 23-7-2, passed 7-10-2023)
**** PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ****
§ 158.220 PURPOSE.
   Performance standards set forth herein are established to protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare of the city and to
promote a more desirable environment in which to live and work within the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.221 NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall emit beyond the boundary of his or her property any
sound that unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of life or with any
lawful business or activity or so as to violate any rule set forth herein.
Lands are to be classified into three classes: Class A is to consist of areas
especially noise sensitive in that they incorporate sleeping quarters, namely
residential and institutional uses; Class B is to consist of Retail Commercial
and Office Commercial land uses, as well as recreational and open space uses;
and Class C is to include all industrial and manufacturing uses.
   (B)   The applicable land use designation for undeveloped land shall be
determined by the predominant land use of the surrounding property or, if no
use is predominant, by the most restrictive designation applicable to any of
the surrounding property.
   (C)   The following standards shall apply.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of any noise to
abutting Class A property from land used as designated below in excess of the
levels specified below, in the designated octave bands, when measured at any
point on or beyond the property line of the land on which the noise originates.
Daytime (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.)
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C B A
Daytime (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.)
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C        B        A
31.5               75       72       72
1,000              52       45       45
2,000              47       39       39
4,000              43       34       34
8,000              40       32       32
A-Level            61 dB(A) 55 dB(A) 55 dB(A)
Nighttime (10:01 p.m. to 6:59 a.m.)
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C B A
Nighttime (10:01 p.m. to 6:59 a.m.)
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C        B        A
31.5               69       63       63
1,000              41       35       35
2,000              36       30       30
4,000              32       25       25
8,000              32       25       25
A-Level            51 dB(A) 45 dB(A) 45 dB(A)
 
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of any noise to
abutting Class B property from land used as designated below in excess of the
levels specified below, in the designated octave bands, when measured at any
point on or beyond the property line of the land on which the noise originates.
24 Hours per Day
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C B A
24 Hours per Day
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C        B        A
31.5               88       79       72
1,000              57       52       45
2,000              52       46       39
4,000              48       41       34
8,000              45       39       32
A-Level            66 dB(A) 62 dB(A) 55 dB(A)
 
      (3)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of any noise to
abutting Class C property from land as designated below in excess of the levels
specified below, in the designated octave bands, when measured at any point on
or beyond the property line of the land on which the noise originates.
24 Hours per Day
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C All Other
24 Hours per Day
Octave Band Center Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) at Emitter’s Property
Frequency          Line
Hertz              C        All Other
34.5               88       79
1,000              60       52
2,000              54       46
4,000              50       41
8,000              47       39
A-Level            70 dB(A) 62 dB(A)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.222 AIR POLLUTION.
   The city adopts the State Environmental Protection Agency Air Pollution
Regulations. The State Environmental Protection Agency Air Pollution
Regulations, as adopted by the State Pollution Control Board on April 14, 1972,
and published by the State Environmental Protection Agency and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made part of this chapter. One
copy of said regulations shall be kept on file in the City Hall for public
inspection. Any person who violates any provision of said regulations shall be
subject to the penalties provided for the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.223 WATER POLLUTION.
   The city adopts the State Environmental Protection Agency Water Pollution
Regulations. The State Environmental Protection Agency Water Pollution
Regulations, as adopted by the State Pollution Control Board on March 7, 1972,
and published by the State Environmental Protection Agency and all amendments
thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and made part of this subchapter. One
copy of said regulations shall be kept on file in the City Hall for public
inspection. Any person who violates any provision of said regulations shall be
subject to the penalties provided for the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.224 OPEN BURNING.
   The city adopts the State Environmental Protection Agency Open Burning
Pollution Regulations. The State Environmental Protection Agency Open Burning
Regulations as adopted by the State Pollution Control Board on September 2,
1971, and published by the State Environmental Protection Agency and all
amendments thereto are hereby adopted by reference and made part of this
subchapter. One copy of said regulations shall be kept on file in the City Hall
for public inspection. Any person who violates any provision of said
regulations shall be subject to the penalties provided for the violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.225 TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER.
   No use shall, for any period of time, emit into the atmosphere, store on-
site, dispose on-site or discharge across the boundaries of the lot wherein it
is located, toxic or noxious matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental
to, or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury
or damage to property or business.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.226 ODORS.
   The emission of odorous material in such quantity as to be readily
detectable at any point along lot lines, or as to produce a public nuisance or
hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.227 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS.
   The International Fire Code (current edition) shall be applicable to all
buildings, structures and appurtenances thereof.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.228 VIBRATION.
   (A)   Any operation or activity which shall cause, at any time and at any
point along the nearest adjacent lot line, earth-borne vibrations (other than
background vibrations produced by some source not under control of this
chapter), such as the operation of motor vehicles or other transportation
facilities, in excess of the limits set forth in this section, is prohibited.
In addition, any operation or activity which shall cause at any time and at any
point along a residential boundary line, earthborne vibrations in excess of the
limits set for in Column II herein is prohibited.
   (B)   Vibration shall be expressed as displacement in inches and shall be
measured with a three component measuring system approved by the city.
Frequency (cycles per I* Displacement (inches) II* Displacement (inches)
second)
Frequency (cycles per I* Displacement (inches) II* Displacement (inches)
second)
0 to 10               0.0008                   0.0004
10 to 20              0.0005                   0.0002
20 to 30              0.0002                   0.0001
30 to 40              0.0002                   0.0001
40 and over           0.0001                   0.0001
Notes to Table:
* Steady state vibrations, for the purpose of this chapter, which are
continuous or, if in discrete pulses, are more frequent than 100 per
minute. Impact vibrations, that is, discrete pulses which do not exceed
ten impulses per minute, shall not cause in excess of twice the
displacements stipulated.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.229 GLARE OR HEAT.
   No use or activity shall be permitted which causes glare or heat to be
transmitted or reflected in such quantities as to be detrimental or harmful to
the use of adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 14.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
**** SPECIAL USES ****
§ 158.240 PURPOSE.
   The principal objective of this chapter is to provide for an orderly
arrangement of compatible building and land uses, and for the proper location
of all types of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the city.
To accomplish this objective, each type and kind of use is classified as
permitted in one or more of the various district’s established by this chapter.
However, in addition to those uses specifically classified and permitted in
each district, there are certain additional uses which it may be necessary to
allow because of their unusual characteristics or the service they provide the
public. These “special uses” require particular consideration as to their
proper location in relation to adjacent established or intended uses, or to the
planned development of the community. The conditions controlling the location
and operation of such “special uses” are established by the following
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.241 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The general requirements of the specific zoning district in which the
requested use will be located are applicable except where specifically modified
by a special use permit. All conditions and requirements, as determined by the
City Council and based on recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission
and city staff, shall be considered as additions to the general requirements as
found in this chapter. The special use permit shall include the approved
specific conditions required to address circumstances unique to the proposed
use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.242 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   The City Council may authorize a special use permit as provided herein upon
determining and finding as fact, the following.
   (A)   The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort or general welfare, nor substantially diminish or impair the value of
other properties or improvements in the vicinity.
   (B)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located and this chapter generally, including, but not
limited to, all applicable yard and bulk regulations, parking and loading
regulations, sign control regulations, wetlands and floodplain regulations,
building and fire codes and all other applicable city ordinances, or if
exceptions are requested, that such exceptions are justified.
   (C)   The proposed use: will not negatively impact the existing off-site
traffic circulation; will adequately address on-site traffic circulation; will
provide adequate on-site parking facilities; and if appropriate or required,
will contribute financially, in proportion to its impact, to upgrading roadway
systems.
   (D)   The proposed use will not negatively impact existing public utilities,
facilities and municipal service delivery systems without due consideration for
adequate means of upgrading such utilities, facilities and systems.
   (E)   The proposed use will not negatively impact the environment by
creating air, noise or water pollution, ground contamination or unsightly views
without due consideration for adequate means of controlling, mitigating or
buffering such impacts.
   (F)   The proposed use will: maintain, where possible, existing mature
vegetation; provide adequate screening to residential properties; and provide
appropriate landscaping.
   (G)   The proposed use will meet standards and requirements established by
jurisdictions other than the city, such as federal, state, county or other
governmental units or agencies requiring licensing, permitting or health/safety
inspections, and submit written evidence thereof.
   (H)   The proposed use shall conform to the regulations established for
specific special uses as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.243 MOTOR VEHICLE SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Motor vehicle sales and services, parking; used car sales; and sales
and service of agriculture implements shall be a special use in any business
district. Before a certificate of zoning compliance is issued for any sales
and/or used motor vehicle car sales lot special use, the following requirements
must be met.
      (1)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed use is
economically compatible with existing uses.
      (2)   The special use will not injure surrounding property values.
      (3)   Lighting sources shall be directed away from surrounding
properties.
      (4)   Display area shall have a paved surface.
   (B)   In the event that a sales and/or used motor vehicle sales lot is
proposed to be established on a previously improved zoning lot where no
certificate of zoning compliance was required, the requirements of this §
158.243 must be met prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit for such use.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.244 MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE STATIONS.
   Motor vehicle service station shall be a special use subject to the
following.
   (A)   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line, side lot line or rear lot
line.
   (B)   Every access way shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal
building of any fire station, school, public library and church at least 30
feet from the corner of the lot when the lot is at the intersection of public
streets.
   (C)   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   (D)   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for 12
consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the Zoning
Administrator shall order that all underground storage tanks be removed or
filled with material approved by the Fire Chief.
   (E)   Auto repair stations:
      (1)   All body shop repairs to motor vehicles shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building whose doors shall be kept shut tightly during all
body repairs or painting work. Such enclosed building shall be located at least
40 feet from the nearest property line with doors not facing toward any
residentially zoned or occupied lot.
      (2)   There shall be no outside parking of motor vehicles except on a
temporary basis not to exceed 14 days. Junk parts and junk vehicles shall not
be kept outside the building unless in an enclosed privacy fence. This fence
must meet all city fence requirements.
      (3)   Parking shall be provided on the site at a ratio of one parking
space for each 3,000 square feet of site area.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.245 KENNELS.
   A kennel is considered a special use subject to the following.
   (A)   The lot on which the kennel is situated shall have a minimum of three
acres.
   (B)   Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest
dwelling and not less than 100 feet from any lot line.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.246 REST HOMES, NURSING HOMES.
   Rest home and nursing home are a special use in any use district, provided
that when located in a business district such uses shall be established above
the first floor when located in a building constructed for a business use. A
building originally constructed for residential use in a business district may
be used in whole or in part for rest homes or nursing homes.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.247 GROUP HOMES.
   A group home is a special use in any residential zoning district that is
licensed or certified by the state, supervised and has nine or more persons
plus staff, subject to the following.
   (A)   A minimum distance of 1,000 feet is maintained between group homes.
   (B)   The group home conforms to all current provisions of this chapter,
city building code and state licensing standards, if applicable to the use.
Said conditions may be waived by the City Council.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.248 EARTH MATERIALS EXTRACTION, PROCESSING, SITE RECLAMATION AND RELATED
OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONCRETE BUILDING MATERIALS PRODUCTION PLANT. A facility that
incorporates machinery and earth materials to produce cement or concrete-based
products used in the construction of structures or in the building and
landscaping industry for marketing and sale.
      CONCRETE RECYCLING PLANT. A facility that incorporates machinery and a
supply of used concrete, cement products and debris to crush and process such
materials into raw products to be utilized for sale or incorporation into other
products. The term CONCRETE herein specifically excludes bituminous concrete,
also known as asphalt.
      EARTH MATERIALS EXTRACTION. The mining of any natural earth materials or
minerals, such as gravel, sand, stone, clay or aggregate by removing the
overburden lying above natural deposits thereof and mining directly from
natural deposits thereby exposed, or from the deposition of overburden
therefrom. The term SURFACE MINING shall be deemed synonymous with EARTH
MATERIALS EXTRACTION.
      EARTH MATERIALS PROCESSING. The transporting, washing, sorting,
screening, grading, crushing and similar processing of natural earth materials
or minerals, such as gravel, sand or aggregate, in order to prepare such
materials for marketing, sale or incorporation into other earth materials based
products.
      READY-MIX PLANT. A facility used for the dispensing of cement, water,
stone and sand into mixer trucks in order to create liquid concrete products to
be transported off-site for use in construction of concrete structures and
products.
   (B)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to recognize that earth
materials extraction and processing and related operations, such as ready-mix
plants, concrete recycling plants and concrete building materials production
plants, as well as the associated exterior storage of raw and recyclable
materials, are uses requiring unique regulatory controls to ensure that:
      (1)   Operations are conducted in a manner that are compatible with the
natural and human-made environment;
      (2)   Adverse impacts on surrounding areas, including, without
limitation, property values, air quality and noise are minimized; and
      (3)   Mined areas are restored to productive use compatible with the
surrounding areas. It is the further purpose of this section to:
         (a)   Establish regulations and standards for earth materials
extraction and processing, ready-mix plants, concrete recycling plants and
concrete building materials production plants; the storage and stockpiling of
associated raw and recyclable materials; and the trucking and other related
operations pertaining to these activities; and
         (b)   Provide for the conservation and reclamation of lands affected
by earth materials extraction, processing and related operations in order to
restore them to optimum future productive use consistent with the protection of
public health and the environment. Therefore, earth materials extraction and
processing, and the operation of ready-mix plants, concrete recycling plants
and concrete building materials production plants shall only be permitted on a
special use basis.
   (C)   Applicable zoning districts and operations. In M-Manufacturing
Districts only, an operator desiring to extract and/or process earth materials
shall apply for a special use permit jointly with the owner or any person who
is entitled to legal possession of the property to be affected and shall comply
with the operation and reclamation regulations in this section.
   (D)   Compliance with state and federal regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner/operator to engage in surface
mining in an area where the overburden shall exceed ten feet in depth or where
the operation will affect more than ten acres during the permit year without
first obtaining from the State Department of Mines and Minerals a permit to do
so, pursuant to the Surface-Mined Land Conservation and Reclamation Act, 225
ILCS 715/1 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   All owner/operators shall comply with the regulations of the United
States Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Army Corps of
Engineers, the State Environmental Protection Agency and any other applicable
state or federal laws or regulations, including, but not limited to,
occupational health and safety. Any necessary permits shall be obtained prior
to issuance of the special use permit. Before the onset of any operations, the
City Administrator must be provided with copies of all necessary permits. Such
permits must be kept valid and in force for the special use permit to be valid
and in force.
   (E)   Application for special use permit. All owner/operators shall apply
for a special use permit. In addition to the other requirements of this
subchapter, the owner/operator shall present the statements, maps and plans
required in divisions (F) and (G) below. Review and approval of the special use
permit and any terms and conditions imposed upon and included with said special
use permit shall take into account the materials provided in divisions (F) and
(G) below.
   (F)   Statements. The following statements shall accompany an application
for a special use permit:
      (1)   Ownership of land;
      (2)   Minerals to be mined;
      (3)   Character and composition of vegetation and wildlife on land to be
affected;
      (4)   The nature, depth and proposed disposition of the overburden;
      (5)   The estimated depth to which the mineral deposit will be mined;
      (6)   Estimated type and volume of excavation;
      (7)   The techniques and equipment proposed to be used, as applicable,
for:
         (a)   Earth materials extraction;
         (b)   Earth materials processing;
         (c)   Ready-mix plant;
         (d)   Concrete recycling plant; and
         (e)   Concrete building materials production plant.
      (8)   Practices and methods proposed to be used to minimize noise, dust,
air contaminants and vibration and to prevent pollution of surface or
underground water;
      (9)   The method of recycling water used for washing and grading;
      (10)   The proposed usage or drainage of excess water;
      (11)   Location of existing roads and anticipated access and haulage
roads planned to be used or constructed in conducting surface mining;
      (12)   Location and names of all streams, creeks and bodies of water
within lands to be affected;
      (13)   Drainage on and away from the lands to be affected, including
directional flow of water, natural and artificial drainways and waterways and
streams or tributaries receiving the discharge;
      (14)   Proposed days and hours of operation of all excavation, processing
and operations on the property; and
      (15)   Projected dates of commencement and completion of all excavation,
processing and operations on the property.
   (G)   Maps and plans. The following maps and plans, which shall constitute
the operations plan, shall accompany an application for a special use permit:
      (1)   A map or maps (scale of one inch equals 100 feet) showing the
following:
         (a)   Existing topography at two-foot contour intervals;
         (b)   Location of existing water courses or drainage systems;
         (c)   Location and extent of flood hazard areas;
         (d)   Boundaries of the area to be excavated and of each phase if
excavation is to proceed or be contemplated to proceed in phases;
         (e)   Locations of proposed and existing structures, equipment and
material storage areas and processing areas;
         (f)   Existing or proposed locations of equipment used for grading,
crushing, sorting and other related purposes;
         (g)   Location, orientation and dimensions of all proposed
landscaping, berming, screening, fencing and gates;
         (h)   Location, dimensions and surface treatment of proposed entrance
and exit drive(s), on-site haul roads and parking areas;
         (i)   Access routes between the property and nearest arterial street
designated on the city’s comprehensive plan;
         (j)   Location, width and grade of all rights-of-way or easements on
or abutting the property;
         (k)   Cross-sections showing extent of overburden, extent of deposits
to be extracted and water table;
         (l)   North arrow, scale, date of preparation, name of registered
civil engineer, landscape architect or surveyor that prepared the map; and
         (m)   Existing or proposed location of groundwater monitoring well(s).
      (2)   A reclamation plan meeting the following requirements:
         (a)   Map (scale of one inch equals 100 feet) showing the final
condition of the site after extraction and processing activities have been
completed;
         (b)   Locations of proposed water courses, water features and drainage
systems;
         (c)   Future structures, land uses, roadways and open spaces;
         (d)   Staged schedule of reclamation actions by area detailing dates
of completion and reclamation methods;
         (e)   Future landscaping and ground cover; and
         (f)   Final grading.
      (3)   All approvals of special use permits for earth materials extraction
and processing shall expire ten years from the date they are approved by the
City Council, unless a longer time is approved by the City Council. The maximum
allowable time limit will be 20 years. The City Administrator or his or her
designee will be responsible for monitoring the operation throughout the life
of the operation and special use.
   (H)   Renewal of a special use permit. A renewal of a special use under this
section shall be for a period of time not more than ten years.
      (1)   A request to renew a special use permit that involves acreage or
equipment in addition to that allowed in the original special use permit shall
be treated in the same manner as the initial application.
      (2)   A request to renew a special use permit when no additional acreage
or equipment will be brought into use shall be handled in the following manner.
         (a)   If an owner/operator is unable to finish mining the acreage
described in the original special use permit in the time specified, he or she
shall apply to the Zoning Council of Appeals for renewal of the special use
permit.
         (b)   A public hearing will be held. The maps required by this section
for the initial hearing shall be revised, updated and resubmitted, along with a
statement of the current status of the mining reclamation.
         (c)   Any application for a renewal of a special use under this
section shall be filed with the Commission not less than 120 days before the
expiration date of the original special use permit or any renewal thereof.
         (d)   A failure to file a request for renewal within the required time
designated in this section shall result in a required cessation of mining and
sale of product upon the expiration of the special use permit.
   (I)   Surety. All owner/operators shall be required to obtain the proper
permits and submit an acceptable irrevocable letter of credit to ensure the
completion of the reclamation of the site. If any form of surety is required by
the state, the owner/operator shall only be required to provide the City
Administrator with a photocopy. A letter of credit will be required by the city
of not less than $3,500 for each acre to be affected. The actual dollar amount
will be established by the City Administrator based upon 150% of the City
Engineer’s estimate of the cost of reclamation per acre average at the time
mining is to be performed. This estimate shall take into consideration
inflation of costs in future years. The actual operation shall be monitored by
the City Administrator, or his or her designee, and he or she shall prepare a
written report for review by the City Council on the progress before partial or
full release or reduction of the letter of credit. The surety shall be held by
the city. Such surety shall remain in effect until the affected lands have been
reclaimed in accordance with the reclamation plan, and the work is approved by
the City Administrator at the annual review of the operation (see division (N)
below). Land shall not be mined unless a surety for that land has been filed
with the city. The surety shall be approved by the City Attorney. The surety
shall be for assurance of completion of reclamation, and the initial surety
amount shall be set on an anticipated three years working basis with reasonable
allowance for inflation of costs. Before the end of each one-year period, the
City Administrator’s evaluation and the approval of the past year’s work shall
be required for release of or reduction of the letter of credit amount, and at
that time, the surety level shall be established for the next one-year period
or fraction thereof. Decisions of the City Administrator relative to any aspect
of this division (I) are appealable to the City Council, whose decision is
final.
   (J)   Reclamation regulations. The reclamation plan map and statement of
sequential operation and reclamation shall be followed to produce a finished
condition that complies with the reclamation plan map and the provisions of
this section so as to provide for the return to a useful purpose of the
affected land.
   (K)   Changing the reclamation plan. In the event a change in the
reclamation plan is necessary due to the unanticipated characteristics of the
area concerned, the City Administrator, after being provided with appropriate
documentation, shall study the proposed change, and give a report to the City
Council for its review. Changes may be made in the reclamation plan upon the
mutual consent of the owner/operator and the City Administrator and approval by
the City Council. The change shall preserve as substantially as possible the
original reclamation plan, but shall also provide for the previously unknown
variables.
   (L)   Finished conditions. The finished conditions of all land affected by
surface mining shall:
      (1)   Be back-filled with earth or other suitable fill material approved
by the city and graded to a rolling topography traversable by machines
necessary for maintenance in accordance with planned use, with slopes having no
more than 15% grade. In the case of those lands to be reclaimed in accordance
with the filed plan for forest plantations, recreation or wildlife, the final
cut spoil, the outside slope of the box cut spoil, the outside slopes of all
overburden deposition area, and the side slopes of haulage road inclines shall
not exceed 30% grade; but such slopes need not be reduced to less than the
original grade of the overburden of the area prior to mining;
      (2)   Be designed to control conditions that could cause erosion on the
site or on surrounding streets or properties;
      (3)   Be designed to eliminate large undrained depressions other than
artificial lakes or depositions designed specifically for erosion control;
      (4)   Be designed so that any surface drainage from the property shall
leave the property at the original natural drainage points. If this is not
possible, the drainage plans must be reviewed by the City Engineer as part of
the overall submission. Drainage volume shall not be increased over what it
would have been if the site was left in its former use and water conservation
practices were applied. The finished condition must meet the city standards for
stormwater retention-detention contained within the city’s municipal code;
      (5)   Be covered with arable topsoil (except for areas under water) to a
minimum depth of six inches, and shall have a minimum of 10% organic material,
except that no greater depth of topsoil or percentage of organic material shall
be required than that originally existed on the property prior to commencement
of operations;
      (6)   Be successfully planted (after replacement of the topsoil) with
trees, shrubs, legumes, grasses or other vegetative ground cover in accordance
with the reclamation plan in order to avoid erosion; and
      (7)   Whenever production and/or processing on any property shall have
been completed, then all processing plants, buildings (other than those shown
on the reclamation plan), structures (except fences) and equipment, shall be
entirely removed from the property within one year after completion, including,
but not limited to, such items as stumps, boulders and other debris resulting
from excavation and related activities.
   (M)   Operations and reclamation requirements and performance standards. The
operation and reclamation of the property shall be in accordance with the
following conditions.
      (1)   Existing trees, shrubs and other types of woody vegetation along
road frontages shall be protected and maintained. Weeds and other unsightly
noxious vegetation shall be cut or trimmed as may be necessary to present a
reasonably neat appearance, to prevent grass fires or the hazard of grass
fires.
      (2)   The following apply to protection of groundwater levels and
quality.
         (a)   No extraction operations shall be conducted in such a manner
that the groundwater table of surrounding properties is harmfully lowered or
impacted. The maximum excavation depth shall not go below existing groundwater,
except where the approved reclamation plan provides for a water feature or for
refilling of such excavation. Any such refilling shall be in compliance with
applicable state and federal laws and regulations governing groundwater
pollution.
         (b)   Water pumped from the site for the purpose of washing shall be
retained in a pond until the silt and clay settles and then the water shall be
recycled in the area affected.
         (c)   The owner/operator shall install a groundwater monitoring well
or wells, the location, type and number of which shall be shown on the
operations plan. Such wells and related gauges shall be located and constructed
to provide measuring data relative to the movement of groundwater and changes
in the levels thereof and water quality testing. The city shall have the
authority to establish and periodically update groundwater parameters
consistent with standards in the field of earth materials extraction monitoring
typical in the state. As of the date of the adoption of this division (M)(2),
which is August 26, 2002, the following parameters shall apply.
            1.   The owner/operator shall provide groundwater level reports
quarterly using the data from the monitoring well or wells and related gauges,
at times and upon forms provided by the City Administrator.
            2.   The owner/operator shall provide annual groundwater quality
reports at times and on forms provided by the City Administrator using samples
from the monitoring well or wells. If the operations involve the removal of
materials from below the elevation of the groundwater, or if the standing water
exists within the area of active operation or disturbed area, then the owner/
operator shall provide groundwater quality data to the City Administrator
quarterly with the groundwater level reports.
      (3)   If the subject areas shall front on a township road which is used
for access to the site, the owner/operator shall, coincidental with
commencement of operations, bring that township road up to the paving standards
defined for industrial roads in the “Schedule of Minimum Design Requirements
for Subdivision Roads in McHenry County,” from the entrance to the subject area
to the nearest federal, state or county road used by the operator. The owner/
operator shall repair any section of road damaged as a result of gravel hauling
operations, but shall not be responsible for the normal wear and tear of the
road. This provision shall not be construed to require the operator to purchase
additional rights-of-way.
      (4)   All operations shall be conducted in a safe manner, especially with
respect to hazards to persons, damage to adjacent lands or improvements and
wells, and damage to any street by slides, sinking or collapse of supporting
soil adjacent to an excavation.
      (5)   The following apply to surface mining conditions only, not to
reclamation conditions.
         (a)   Surface mining operations that remove and do not replace the
lateral support shall not approach property lines, established right-of-way
lines of any public roads, streets or highways closer than a distance equal to
100 feet unless a lesser distance is mutually agreed to by the operator and
adjacent property owner and submitted in writing for review and approval by the
city.
         (b)   The bottom of the slope of the mined face of the excavation
shall not be closer to the point determined per division (M)(5)(a) above, than
a distance equal to one and one-half times the depth of the excavation.
         (c)   If consolidated materials occur in the mined face, the slope of
the face may be steeper than one and one-half to one slope per division (M)(5)
(b) above for the depth(s) of those materials; however, all other mined slopes
of unconsolidated materials shall be no steeper than those per division (M)(5)
(b) above.
         (d)   Overburden shall not be removed from more land than is to be
mined within one year. No overburden shall be removed from additional land
until vegetative ground cover in conformance with the reclamation plan is
installed on all land where excavation is complete and the land is not being
used for earth material storage.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section or of other
ordinances and codes relating to screening, all active operations shall be
screened and buffered by an earthen berm of not less than six feet in height
and/or a farm fence of not less than 54 inches in height of such a design so as
to allow the free flow of wild animals, but to discourage trespass by humans
and farm animals. Berms that will remain in place for one year or longer shall
be planted with grass or suitable vegetative ground cover, shrubs and trees and
maintained as a visual and acoustical screen. They shall be designed so they do
not erode into the road or highway right-of-way or onto the adjoining property.
Such berms shall be installed prior to the commencement of any operations
adjacent to said activity. The berm design and the landscaping plan, including
the type, quantity and species of plants, shrubs and trees, shall be subject to
review and approval of the city. Trees and shrubbery shall be planted on the
berm. Trees planted shall be approximately ten feet or more in height and shall
be planted in two rows approximately 16 feet apart, and shall be centered
approximately 20 feet apart in each row, with the back row staggered. Random
shrubbery shall also be planted. The trees shall be as specially developed and
recommended for rapid growth and appearance by the United States Forestry
Service, and shall be in accordance with the standards adopted by the State
Department of Mines and Minerals pursuant to the State Surface-Mined Land
Conservation and Reclamation Act. Until such growth is established, the owner
or operator shall be responsible for weed control and may be required to do re-
seeding or re-planting for areas where the vegetation dies or does not take. A
gate shall be placed at all entrances that will be kept locked whenever the
owner, operator or his or her agent is not on-site.
      (7)   The processing and stockpiling of earth materials and recyclable
materials shall not be conducted within 300 feet of the property lines of any
adjoining residentially zoned property. There shall be no importation onto the
site of materials that do not relate to the approved uses, including, but not
limited to, mixed construction debris and asphalt. The maximum height of stock
piles of any materials shall not exceed the height of the earthen berm on the
perimeter of the property.
      (8)   Other than maintenance functions, no earth extraction and
processing operations, ready-mix or concrete production or recycling of
concrete, shall take place at any time on Sundays, or holidays recognized by
both state and federal governments, or on Saturday prior to 6:00 a.m. and after
4:00 p.m. or between 6:01 p.m. and 5:59 a.m. on all other days.
      (9)   Operations shall be conducted so that noise levels and air and
water standards comply with federal and state standards.
      (10)   To minimize airborne dust and the deposit of dirt and gravel on
public streets, all access ways and on-site roads shall be maintained in a
dust-free condition either by paving or spraying with calcium chloride or other
products of like effect.
      (11)   The premises shall be neat and orderly, free from junk, trash,
abandoned equipment or unnecessary debris. Debris, including, but not limited
to, rebar from concrete recycling, shall be regularly removed from the site.
The site shall not be used as storage for debris not related to the special use
permit. Buildings and structures shall be maintained in a sound condition, in
good repair and appearance. Salvageable equipment stored in a non-operating
condition shall be suitably screened or garaged. Berms and fences shall be kept
in good repair.
      (12)   Enough topsoil must be stockpiled to meet the finished conditions
of division (M)(5) above.
      (13)   Trucks hauling excavated materials shall be loaded so as to
prevent spillage onto public streets. All trucks shall be covered. Any spillage
on streets must be removed by the owner or operator within 24 hours of a spill.
The entrances into the site shall be swept on a regular basis, with no less a
frequency than weekly during peak season (April 1 to November 30). The owner or
operator shall attempt to minimize the migration of loose gravel onto public
streets by requiring that spread pans, side rails, suspension systems and the
like be kept free of sand and gravel to an extent as is reasonably possible.
      (14)   All equipment, machinery and vehicles operating on the site shall
be operated and maintained so as to minimize the possibility of oil or fuel
leaks. Should a leak or similar accident occur, the owner or operator shall
have a written emergency plan and the proper equipment and materials necessary
to contain and clean up any such leak. If a leak occurs such that the plan is
put into effect, the city shall receive a report of the incident. The plan
shall be updated as technology evolves.
      (15)   Only those vehicles and items of equipment which relate to the
approved activities on the site may be parked or stored on the site.
      (16)   In case of conflict between any operations plan or reclamation
plan or map and the provisions of this division (M), the greatest restriction
or highest standard shall govern, unless an exception is specifically provided
for in a special use permit.
   (N)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The City Administrator, or his or her designee, in conjunction with
the City Engineer, shall annually review each special use granted under this
section. Such inspections shall include all activities permitted on the
property. In addition to the reclamation plan/map, the owner/operator shall
provide the City Administrator with an annual aerial photo of his or her total
operation, enlarged to a scale of one inch equal 100 feet or other scale that
would adequately display the property affected on a 30-inch square format. The
first photo shall be taken during the first year in operation, and subsequent
photos shall be taken in the same month of the following years. Each year’s
photo shall be presented at the same scale for the purpose of comparison. The
photo shall be taken in clear daylight when the area is without foliage or
snow.
      (2)   Every three years, the city shall be provided with a new
topographical map of the site drawn at two-foot contour intervals.
      (3)   The City Administrator, in conjunction with the City Engineer,
shall prepare a report and submit it to the City Council for its review and
approval. If it is determined that the operator is not in compliance with this
division (N), the surety requirement, the operations and reclamation
statements, plans or maps, or any other aspect of the approved special use
permit, the City Administrator shall issue a stop work order on all operations
other than reclamation work needed to bring the operation into compliance.
      (4)   Before release or reduction of a surety, an on-site inspection of
the acreage reclaimed shall be made by the City Administrator and the City
Engineer to check for compliance with the reclamation plan and any additional
conditions of the special use permit. A random count procedure shall be used to
check seeding, plantings and depth of topsoil. The full costs of all
inspections shall be borne by the owner/operator. Failure to pay invoices for
such costs after the expiration of 30 days after the date the invoices are
mailed or delivered to the owner/operator shall result in a stop work order
being issued by the city.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.249 ADULT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the intent of this section to protect and
preserve the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens of the city by
regulating adult business within the city.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   A special use permit must be issued for each adult business
pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   No adult business shall be operated within 1,000 feet of a
residential zoning district or within 1,000 feet of the property boundaries of
any school, day care center, cemetery, public park, public housing, nursing
home, rest home, sheltered care facility and place of religious worship. The
distance limitation shall be measured in a straight line from the lot lines of
said adult business and applicable residential zoning district, school, day
care center, cemetery, public park, public housing, nursing home, rest home,
sheltered care facility and place of religious worship.
      (3)   Only one adult business shall be permitted per block face.
      (4)   The following sign requirements shall apply to any adult business.
         (a)   All signs shall be flat wall signs.
         (b)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of
sign area per foot of lot frontage on a street, or as permitted by the
ordinances of the city, whichever is more restrictive.
         (c)   Window areas shall not be covered or made opaque in any way. No
sign shall be placed in any window. One square foot sign may be placed on the
door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults only.
      (5)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can be
viewed from the sidewalk in front of the building.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any adult business to sell, distribute or
permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the premises.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.250 EXISTING SOLAR FARMS.
   All other requirements of the underlying zoning district shall apply unless
relief is provided by the city. In addition, the city may require as a
condition of such special use that a development or annexation agreement be
entered into by the parties.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002; Ord. 23-7-2,
passed 7-10-2023)
§ 158.251 ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of this section to
provide regulations regarding the craft growing, cultivation, infusing,
processing, dispensing and transporting of adult-use cannabis occurring within
the corporate limits of the city. Such facilities shall comply with all
regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, being 410 ILCS
705/1-1 et seq., as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the event that
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act is amended, the more restrictive of the
state or local regulations shall apply.
   (B)   General standards. In determining compliance with this subchapter, the
following components of the adult-use cannabis business establishment shall be
evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the particular
property in the context of the existing and intended future use of the
properties:
      (1)   A special use permit must be issued for each adult-use business
establishment pursuant to this subchapter;
      (2)   An adult-use cannabis business establishment may not abut the
property line of a preexisting public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this section;
      (3)   An adult-use cannabis business establishment may not conduct any
sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act;
      (4)   An adult-use cannabis business establishment shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishment, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for the adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act;
      (5)   The city may approve the collocation of an adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization with an adult-use cannabis craft grower or an adult-use
cannabis infuser organization or infuser, or both, subject to the provisions of
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the special use criteria within this
subchapter. In a collocation, the floor space requirements of divisions (E)(2)
and (F)(2) below shall not apply, but the collocated establishments shall be
the sole use of the space;
      (6)   Impact of the proposed adult-use cannabis business establishment on
existing or planned uses located within the vicinity of the subject property;
      (7)   Proposed structure in which the adult-use cannabis business
establishment will be located, including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant
building), total square footage, security installations/security plan and
building code compliance;
      (8)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees;
      (9)   Anticipated parking demand, based on §
158.119, and available private parking supply;
      (10)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways;
      (11)   Site design, including access points and internal site
circulation;
      (12)   Proposed signage plan;
      (13)   Compliance with all requirements for the specific adult-use
cannabis business establishment provided herein, as applicable;
      (14)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance
with this subchapter; and
      (15)   Petitioner for a special use for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment shall file an affidavit with the city affirming compliance with
this subchapter, as provided herein, and all other requirements of the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act.
   (C)   Additional standards for adult-use cannabis craft grower. In those
zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, an
adult-use cannabis craft grower may not abut the property line of a preexisting
property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center. In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, an adult-use
cannabis cultivation center may not abut the property line of a preexisting
property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   An adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may not be located in
a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of the property line of a preexisting
property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (2)   At least 75% of the floor area of any space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and no
adult-use cannabis dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption
on the premises other than as authorized in division (E)(3) below in the same
space.
      (3)   An adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be issued a
permit to host on-site consumption of cannabis if located in a free-standing
structure occupied solely by the adult-use cannabis dispensing organization and
smoke from the facility does not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. The security plan for the adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization required by division (B)(7) above shall also reflect adequate
provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site
consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked
following notice and hearing.
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   An adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser may not be
located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of the property line of a
preexisting property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (2)   At least 75% of the floor area of any space occupied by an adult-
use cannabis infuser organization or infuser shall be devoted to the activities
of the adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser as authorized by the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (G)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor. In those
zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization or
processor may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   An adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor may not
be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of the property line of a
preexisting property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (2)   At least 75% of the floor area of any space occupied by an adult-
use cannabis processing organization or processor shall be devoted to the
activities of the adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor as
authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   (H)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter. In those
zoning districts in which an adult-use transporting organization or transporter
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following.
      (1)   An adult-use transporting organization or transporter may not be
located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of the property line of a
preexisting property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      (2)   The adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter
shall be the sole use of the space in which it is located.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.12) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.252 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Development of conditions. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend, and the City Council may impose, such conditions of approval upon a
special use permit as to the establishment, location, construction, maintenance
and operation of a special use as deemed necessary for the protection of the
public interest and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements of
§
158.242.
   (B)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan shall be required for all
applications for a special use permit. The landscape plan shall be prepared in
accordance with §§
153.25 through
153.39. The Commission or the City Council may request or require the review of
all landscape plans as part of the consideration of a petition for a special
use permit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 15.13) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ****
§ 158.265 PURPOSE.
   The development and execution of a zoning ordinance is based upon the
division of the city into districts, within which districts the use of land and
buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to
the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are
special uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public
need for the particular use at the particular location. It is also recognized
that new types and procedures in land development or redevelopment are emerging
and that the mixing of uses and variations in heights and yards can produce
very satisfactory and lasting results, if properly designed and planned,
without adverse influence upon surrounding property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.266 WHERE PERMITTED.
   A planned development may be located in any zoning district, subject to the
procedures and standards set forth below and subsequent to the issuing of a
special use permit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.267 MINIMUM AREA.
   No minimum lot area or acreage is required to be eligible for consideration
as a planned development area. The major requirement is that the tract be both
self-contained and homogeneous, as well as being improved so as to benefit the
entire city with no adverse effect upon the surrounding property.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.268 REQUIRED SEWER AND WATER.
   A planned development shall be served by a sanitary sewerage system and a
public water supply system.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.269 PROCEDURE, APPLICATION AND REFERRAL.
   The applicant shall submit a concept plan to the City Council for
information purposes and for referral to staff and the Planning and Zoning
Commission. Following staff review and comments, and the review by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, the applicant may begin the preliminary plan procedures.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.270 PRELIMINARY APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Any person or persons owning lots or land within the city may apply to
the Commission for consideration of a planned development. The Commission may
approve or disapprove the application or may make recommendations regarding
changes or revisions that it deems desirable. Said recommendation shall be
forwarded to the City Council. If the preliminary plan is approved by the City
Council, the petitioner may proceed with final plan.
   (B)   The preliminary application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A reproducible map with 15 prints of a survey of the property
showing existing features of the property, including specimen trees,
structures, streets, easements, utility lines and existing land use;
      (2)   A reproducible map with 15 prints of a preliminary development plan
which shall be in conformance with the approved tentative plan, showing, as
appropriate, all the information required on the tentative development plan;
the approximate location and proposed density of dwelling units; nonresidential
building intensity; and land uses considered suitable for adjacent properties:
         (a)   Proposed land uses, population densities and building
intensities;
         (b)   Proposed circulation pattern, indicating both public and private
streets and off-street parking ratio;
         (c)   Proposed parks, playgrounds, school sites and other open spaces;
         (d)   A market analysis of proposed commercial use, if the property is
not zoned for commercial purposes at the time of submittal of the preliminary
development plan;
         (e)   Delineation of the units to be constructed in progression, if
any; and
         (f)   Relation to future land use in surrounding area and the city’s
comprehensive plan.
      (3)   A schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression and a description of the design principles for buildings and
streetscapes; tabulation of total number of acres in the project and the
percent thereof designated for various uses; the number of dwelling units
proposed by type of dwelling for each unit of the development; estimated
residential population by type of dwelling for each unit of the development;
estimated nonresidential population; proposed retail sales by unit and economic
justification; anticipated timing for each unit and standards for height; open
space, parking area and parking spaces, lot coverage, land in streets, floor
area ratio, population density and public improvements proposed for each unit
of the development whenever the applicant proposes an exception from the
standard zoning district or other ordinance regulations governing development.
The applicant shall provide an itemized list of exceptions by unit and by
zoning district, when exceptions are requested by the applicant from the
standard zoning district;
      (4)   The written approval of every property owner within the development
to be bound by the proposed agreements and conditions and to agree to file the
written agreement with the County Recorder of Deeds before the final plan is
approved by the City Council; and
      (5)   Engineering feasibility studies, as necessary.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.06) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.271 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Planned development approval, valid for one year, shall be secured for
each unit of the development as delineated on the preliminary development plan
and approved by the Commission and the City Council.
   (B)   Planned development plans shall be prepared by a qualified
professional team and be concerned with, but not necessarily limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A reproducible map with ten prints of the site plan showing
buildings, various functional use areas, circulation and their relationships;
      (2)   Preliminary building plans, including floor plans, exterior
elevators and outline specifications of type of building materials, type of
wall and roof construction, type of pavement and surfacing materials;
      (3)   Landscaping plans, including type of plant materials and their
arrangement;
      (4)   Engineering plans, including site grading, street improvements,
drainage and public water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer extensions, as
necessary;
      (5)   Information necessary for evaluation and assignment of fire zone
designations, including proposed use and occupancy, and building heights and
area of each building or structure and proposed distances between buildings and
structures and distances to property lines;
      (6)   There shall also be submitted with the final plan, a written
agreement of restrictions assuring the city that the development will be
carried out in full compliance with the final plan and within the time schedule
of construction submitted with the final plan;
      (7)   All required materials such as maps and proposals, exhibits and the
like, along with the proper fees, shall be presented to the City Clerk prior to
notice of publication for a Commission meeting or a zoning hearing; and
      (8)   Final development plans must be submitted to the Commission after
approval of the preliminary development plan.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.272 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   A planned development shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   The number of dwelling units erected shall not exceed the number
permitted by the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The yards and open spaces adjoining the boundaries of the project
shall not be less than the yard requirements of the district in which it is
located.
   (C)   If a building is permitted to exceed the height limit of the district
in which it is located, the yards and open spaces around such building shall be
increased by an amount equal to the height that the building exceeds the height
limit of the district measured in feet.
   (D)   If more intensive uses are permitted than are required by the district
regulations, there must be clear evidence that such uses are needed to service
the project, provided the Commission shall find:
      (1)   The uses permitted by such exceptions are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
      (2)   The uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature or so
located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the development nor on the
surrounding neighborhood;
      (3)   Not more than 15% of the ground area or of the gross floor area of
such development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by said exceptions;
      (4)   In a planned manufacturing development, such additional uses
allowed by exception shall conform with the performance standards of the
district in which the development is located as set forth in §§
158.205 through
158.209;
      (5)   The use exceptions so allowed are recorded on the zoning district
maps by appropriate symbols or by reference to documents on file with the
Zoning Administrator; and
      (6)   Where the planned development is to be located in a residential
district, no use exceptions shall be allowed unless the size of the planned
development exceeds 20 acres.
   (E)   The amount of off-street parking must be adequate to serve the needs
of the projects, and the Commission and City Council may require more off-
street parking than is otherwise required by this chapter.
   (F)   If any open space or recreational facility is to be used solely by the
residents of the project, adequate provisions shall be made for assessments
against the property within the project so that such facilities can be properly
improved, maintained and operated.
   (G)   Underground utilities, including telephone and electric systems, are
required within the limits of the planned development. Appurtenances to these
systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement
if the Commission finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or
character of the development.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.273 BULK REGULATIONS.
   In the case of any planned development, the Commission may recommend, and
the City Council may authorize, exceptions to the applicable bulk regulations
of this section within the boundaries of such development, provided that the
Commission shall find:
   (A)   Such exception shall be solely for the purpose of encouraging a
desirable living environment no less beneficial to the residents or occupants
of such development, as well as of neighboring properties, than would be
obtained under the bulk regulations of this chapter for buildings developed on
separate zoning lots;
   (B)   The gross population density shall not be increased above the number
which would be permitted under the otherwise applicable district regulations;
   (C)   Along the periphery of planned developments, yards shall be provided
as required by the regulations of the district in which said development is
located;
   (D)   Not less than 50% of the lot coverage in a residential planned
development in the residential zoning districts shall be used for green space
and recreational facilities; and
   (E)   Other standards for height, density, yard regulations, parking,
loading and screening for a planned development shall be governed by the
standards of the residential, commercial or industrial zoning district(s) most
similar in nature and function to the proposed planned development as
determined by the Commission. Standards for public improvements shall be
governed by the applicable ordinances and laws of the city. Exceptions to these
standards by the Commission and the City Council are possible when these bodies
find that such exceptions are warranted in terms of the total proposed
development.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.274 APPROVAL OF THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Whenever the Commission and the City Council approve the final plan
and accompanying agreements, the Zoning Administrator shall issue the necessary
permits for all of the project or for such phases thereof that are to be first
constructed, provided fees are paid and building codes are met.
   (B)   The City Administrator may, from time to time, approve minor changes
within the project, but such changes shall not be of a nature that would affect
the character and standard of the planned development.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.275 TIME LIMIT.
   If no construction has been started within two years from the date of
approval of the final plan, the permits shall be declared null and void, and
the project shall not be initiated unless it is resubmitted and reapproved in
the same manner that it was approved in the first instance. The City Council
may, however, extend the period for initiating construction upon a showing of
good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.276 MINOR MODIFICATION OF PLANS.
   The Zoning Administrator may, from time to time, approve minor changes
within the project, but such changes shall not be of a nature that would affect
the character and standard of the planned development.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.12) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.277 PERFORMANCE.
   At the time of the granting of the permit, the City Council shall make
appropriate arrangements with the applicant which will ensure the
accomplishment at the scheduled times of the public improvements and grants of
easement shown on the approved final plan.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 16.13) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 158.290 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator, or his or her designee, is the Zoning Administrator (also
called the Zoning Enforcement Officer) and shall have the following powers and
duties:
   (A)   Receive and process all applications and petitions for zoning matters
pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Be responsible for the interpretation of the provisions and
regulations of this chapter;
   (C)   Be responsible for administering and enforcing this chapter, including
conducting of inspections required by this chapter or as are necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Serve as a staff liaison to the Commission;
   (E)   Publish annually an up-to-date copy of the zoning map as provided by
state compiled statutes;
   (F)   Maintain for public inspection, during regular business hours, a copy
of this chapter together with the zoning map, along with all amendments
thereto;
   (G)   Maintain all minutes and records of the Commission, and documents,
including, but not limited to, ordinances and permits, that memorialize or
authorize zoning actions taken by the City Council;
   (H)   Perform such other duties as are delegated to him or her or are
provided for generally in this chapter;
   (I)   Review and refer requests for variances, special uses permits and
zoning amendments affecting designated landmarks or property within a
designated historic district to the Historic Preservation Commission after
review and approval by the Commission; and
   (J)   Refer applications for construction, alteration, removal or demolition
affecting proposed or designated landmarks or structures within designated
historic preservation districts.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.01) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.291 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Upon the adoption of this chapter, no land shall be developed, no new use or
structure shall be established or erected and no existing use or structure
shall be enlarged, extended, altered, relocated or reconstructed until a
certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The Zoning Administrator
shall not issue a certificate of zoning compliance unless it has been
determined that the proposed work conforms to the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (A)   Application. An application for a certificate of zoning compliance
shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator in graphic and/or in narrative
form containing the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the applicant(s);
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of the owner(s) or operator(s) of
the proposed structure or use, if different;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees and other related information;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (7)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways; and
      (8)   Any other information that the Zoning Administrator may require.
   (B)   Relationship to building permits. Upon the effective date of this
chapter, the Building Commissioner shall not issue any building permit for the
erection, enlargement, extension, alteration or reconstruction of any structure
unless the applicant for such permit presents to the Building Commissioner a
copy of the certificate of zoning compliance pertaining to such work.
   (C)   Corrective action orders. Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds by
inspection or otherwise, that any lot, structure or use or work thereon is in
violation of this chapter, he or she shall so notify the responsible party and
shall order corrective action.
   (D)   Contents of order. The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
      (1)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      (3)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      (4)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      (5)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the Zoning Administrator if he or she so desires;
      (6)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
      (7)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
   (E)   Service of order. A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, occupant or operator of the offending lot, structure or
use if it is: served personally; sent by certified or registered mail to his or
her last known address; or posted in a conspicuous place on or about the
affected premises.
   (F)   Stop orders. Whenever any work is being done in violation of a
certificate of zoning compliance or this chapter, the Zoning Administrator’s
corrective action order may state that the violation must cease immediately. In
such cases, the corrective action order is equivalent to a stop order.
   (G)   Emergency measures. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter, whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that any violation of
this chapter poses an imminent peril to life or property, he or she may
institute without notice or hearing any necessary proceedings to alleviate the
perilous condition. At the earliest possible time, notice shall be served.
Costs, including attorneys’ fees incurred by the city, shall be paid by
violator.
   (H)   Complaints. Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a complaint to the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall record such complaints,
immediately investigate and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective
action.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.02) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.292 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   Upon adoption of this chapter, no structure or property designated as a
landmark or for which designation as a landmark has been applied or which is
included within the boundaries of a designated historic preservation district
shall be developed, constructed, altered, removed or demolished without first
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness for such actions. Additional
information is available in the city’s Historic Preservation Ordinance.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.03) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.293 CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES.
   (A)   Nothing in §§
158.291 or
158.293 shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or lawful use of
any existing building or zoning lot, except as provided in §§
158.070 through
158.077, and except as may be necessary for the safety of life and property.
   (B)   Certificates for the continued occupancy of legal nonconforming uses
existing at the time this chapter and subsequent amendments become effective
shall be issued by the Building Commissioner upon request, and the certificate
shall state the use is nonconforming and does not conform with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.04) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.294 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Commission, in addition to its powers and duties as prescribed in §
32.01 and state statutes, shall have the powers and duties prescribed by this
chapter.
   (A)   Commission jurisdiction. The Commission is hereby vested with the
following powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals alleging error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator or Building
Commissioner relating to zoning matters set forth in this chapter. After
holding a public hearing, the Commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or Building Commissioner;
      (2)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on applications or petitions for variations from the strict enforcement of any
provisions of this chapter, in accordance with the rules and standards
hereinafter set forth;
      (3)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on applications and petitions for special uses listed in each of the several
zoning districts;
      (4)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on applications and petitions for planned developments referred to it by the
City Council and to hear and decide other matters referred to it or upon which
it is required to pass under the provisions of this chapter;
      (5)   To sit as a special zoning commission for considering text
amendments to this chapter. After holding a public hearing on any proposed text
amendments the Commission shall recommend to the City Council whether or not
such text amendments should be passed. The Commission may also make
recommendations for text amendments, after public hearing, on its own petition;
      (6)   To recommend to the City Council, after holding a public hearing,
on petitions for amendment of the provisions of this chapter (a.k.a. text
amendments) and the boundary lines of zoning districts herein established
(a.k.a. re-zonings or map amendments). Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to authorize the Commission to change any of the provisions of this
chapter or district boundary lines established hereby;
      (7)   The concurring vote of four members shall be necessary to reverse
any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building Commissioner
or Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the petitioner or applicant in
considering any matter upon which the Commission is authorized to act; and
      (8)   To transmit to the City Council, with every recommendation, a
written finding of fact and to refer to any documents and exhibits containing
plans and specifications relating to its recommendation, which documents, plans
and specifications shall remain a part of the permanent records of the
Commission. The finding of fact shall specify the reason or reasons for its
recommendation. The recommendation, or the terms of any relief recommended,
shall be incorporated into the finding of fact and shall be specifically set
forth in a conclusion of the finding.
   (B)   Commission meetings and hearings. All meetings and hearings of the
Commission shall be held at such times as the Commission and/or the corporate
authorities may determine, and the schedule of such meetings and hearings shall
be posted at City Hall. The presence of four Commissioners shall be necessary
for a quorum. The Chairperson, or Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. The Commission shall have the authority to
adopt procedural rules for the conduct of its meetings and hearings consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter and other codes and ordinances of the
city. The Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep record of its
examinations and other official actions, prepare findings of fact, and record
the individual votes upon every question. Such minutes shall be filed with the
city after each meeting or hearing, which shall be a public record.
   (C)   Appeals and stay of proceedings. An appeal may be taken from any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building Commissioner
relating to zoning matters set forth in this chapter by any person, firm or
corporation aggrieved thereby, or by any officer, department, board or
commission of the city. The appeal shall be taken within 45 days of the action
complained of by filing a notice of appeal in duplicate, specifying the grounds
thereof, in the office of the City Clerk who shall transmit forthwith one copy
to the Building Commissioner and one copy to the Chairperson of the Commission.
The Building Commissioner shall forthwith transmit to the Chairperson of the
Commission all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Building Commissioner certifies to the Commission
that, by reason of facts stated in the certification, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case the proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order issued by the Commission or a court of
record after notice to the Building Commissioner and on due cause shown. The
Commission shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal, give due notice thereof to all interested parties and shall render a
written decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appear at the hearing and present testimony in person or by a duly authorized
agent or attorney.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.05) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.295 VARIATIONS AND STANDARDS FOR VARIATIONS.
   (A)   Variations, purpose and intent. In order to accomplish the general
purpose of this chapter, consideration may be given to certain practical
difficulties or hardships in carrying out the strict letter of regulations of
this chapter. The purpose of a variation is to provide relief from difficulties
and hardships arising from requirements, including, but not limited to, bulk,
setback, height, parking and loading, and other regulatory elements of this
chapter. For the purpose of this section, VARIATION does not include and is not
applicable to map amendments (rezonings), text amendments, or special uses. The
Commission may recommend to the City Council variations of the regulations of
this chapter in harmony with their general purpose and intent only in the
specific instances hereinafter set forth and grant by ordinance a variation to
permit relief from any provision relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land, where the Commission
makes a finding of fact based on the standards hereinafter prescribed, when
evidence in a specific case shows conclusively that literal enforcement of any
provision of this chapter would result in a practical difficulty or particular
hardship because of unusual surroundings or condition of the property involved,
or by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of the zoning lot,
or because of unique topography, underground conditions or other unusual
circumstances.
   (B)   Standards for variations.
      (1)   Before recommending any variation, the Commission shall first
determine based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
         (a)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
the zoning district in which it is located;
         (b)   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances;
         (c)   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality; and
         (d)   The variation, if granted, will be in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this chapter.
      (2)   For the purpose of implementing the above rules, the Commission
shall also, in making its determination whether there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships, take into consideration the extent to
which the following facts and conclusions favorable to the applicant have been
established by the evidence and are justified:
         (a)   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
condition of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the petition for a variation is based
are unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and would not be
applicable, generally, to other property within the same zoning classification;
         (c)   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to increase the value of the property, the monetary gain to be realized
from the property, or to alleviate financial difficulty experienced by the
petitioner in the attempt to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
         (d)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by the application
of this chapter and has not been created by any person presently having an
interest in the property;
         (e)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located;
         (f)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion in
the public streets, or increase the danger of fires, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values in the
neighborhood; and
         (g)   The granting of the variation requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures or buildings of the same zoning classification.
   (C)   Administrative variations. For existing structures that do not comply
with the setback requirements for that zoning district, the Zoning
Administrator may grant administrative variations of no more that 2.5% of the
required setback.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.06) (Ord. 03-1-8, passed - -; Ord. 02-8-2, passed
8-26-2002)
§ 158.296 SPECIAL USES AND STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   See §§
158.240 through
158.252.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.07) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.297 TEXT AMENDMENTS AND STANDARDS FOR TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of promoting the public health, safety, comfort and
general welfare, the City Council may, from time to time, upon recommendation
of the Commission in the manner herein set forth, amend the regulations imposed
and the zoning districts created by this chapter.
   (B)   Before recommending any text amendment to this chapter, the Commission
shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case with respect to the following:
      (1)   The proposed amendment is beneficial to the orderly development of
the city;
      (2)   The proposed amendment will benefit the public health, safety,
comfort and general welfare of the community; and
      (3)   The proposed amendment promotes the public interest and not solely
the interest of the petitioner or applicant.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.08) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.298 RE-ZONINGS; MAP AMENDMENTS AND STANDARDS FOR RE-ZONINGS.
   (A)   For the purposes of promoting the public health, safety, comfort and
general welfare, and conserving the values of property throughout the city, the
City Council may, from time to time, upon recommendation of the Commission in
the manner herein set forth, amend the zoning classification of property (also
known as a re-zoning or a map amendment ), provided that in all amendatory
ordinances adopted under the authority of this section, due consideration shall
be given to:
      (1)   Existing conditions;
      (2)   The conservation of property values;
      (3)   The direction of property development and land use that is to the
best advantage of the entire city; and
      (4)   The uses to which property is devoted at the time of the adoption
of any such amendatory ordinance.
   (B)   Before recommending any change in the zoning classification of a
particular property, the Commission shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following:
      (1)   The proposed re-zoning is not detrimental to the orderly
development of the city;
      (2)   The proposed re-zoning will not be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort or general welfare of the community;
      (3)   The request promotes the public interest and not solely the
interest of the petitioner or applicant;
      (4)   The request is consistent with the existing uses of property within
the general area of the property in question;
      (5)   The request is consistent with zoning classifications of property
within the general area of the property in question;
      (6)   The property is not generally suitable for the uses permitted under
the existing zoning classification;
      (7)   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which may have taken place
since the original zoning of the affected property was established supports the
request;
      (8)   If applicable, the length of time that the property in question has
remained undeveloped under its current zoning is considered in the context of
land development in the vicinity of the property in question;
      (9)   The property values of the surrounding and adjacent property will
not be substantially diminished or impaired; and
      (10)   The request is in harmony with the objectives of the comprehensive
plan.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.09) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.299 CONDITIONS.
   The Commission may recommend, and the City Council in granting any variation
or special use may impose, such conditions or restrictions as may be necessary
to comply with the standards established in this chapter, to reduce or minimize
possible detrimental effects of such a variation or special use upon other
adjacent properties, and to better carry out the general intent of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.10) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.300 CITY COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   No action on any specific petition, application or case shall be made
by the City Council without a hearing by the Commission as required herein, nor
without a report thereof having been made by the Commission to the City
Council. Said report shall consist of the hearing minutes and a finding of
fact. Upon the report of the Commission, the City Council, without further
public hearing, may adopt, modify or deny any proposed petition or application
or may refer the petition or application back to the Commission for further
consideration.
   (B)   In the event the Commission does not recommend that a zoning variation
be granted, a two-thirds vote of the City Council shall be required to grant
the variation.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.11) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.301 CHANGE OF ZONING.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Commission the power or authority to alter or change this chapter or any use
district made a part of the zoning map; such power and authority being reserved
to the City Council, and the Commission shall not have any power or authority
with respect to any alterations or change of this chapter except to make
recommendations to the City Council in such specific cases as may properly come
before the Commission.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.12) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.302 IMPLEMENTATION OF VARIATIONS/SPECIAL USES.
   No order for a variation or special use permitting the erection or
alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer than six months,
unless such use is established within such period, provided, however, that
where such use permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a
building, such order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit
for said erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of such permit.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.13) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.303 REVOCATION OF VARIATIONS/SPECIAL USES.
   Whenever any variation or special use granted under the terms of this
chapter has been discontinued or abandoned for a period of six consecutive
months, or whenever there is evidence of a clear intent on the part of the
owner to abandon a variation or special use, such variation or special use,
after being discontinued or abandoned, shall be considered void and the owner
shall submit a new application or petition pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.14) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.304 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   All hearings before the Commission shall require public notice. The
Commission shall cause notice of a petition or application to be given in the
following manner:
   (A)   By publishing notice of the time and place of such hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 15 days prior to the
hearing;
   (B)   By causing said notice to contain the both the legal description and
common address or location for which the petition or application is requested,
as well as a brief statement describing the nature of the petition or
application;
   (C)   By sending a copy of the notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to all property owners within 250 feet of the subject property. The
notice shall be addressed to the person(s) who last paid property taxes; and
   (D)   By notifying such property owners, groups or organizations of the
proposal in writing as the city deems desirable.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.15) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.305 WRITTEN PROTESTS.
   In the event of written protest against the petition or application, signed
and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered,
or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the
alley or rear line therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly
opposite the frontage proposed to be altered as to such regulations or zoning
district, and filed with the City Clerk, such petition or application shall not
be approved except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all trustees then
holding office.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.16) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.306 HEARING OFFICER ALTERNATIVE PROCESS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.1, in the event the City Council
determines that a zoning petition filed with the city to be heard by the
Commission is likely to require a hearing of such duration or complexity so as
to cause difficulties or hardships upon the members of the Commission to attend
and adequately manage all of the sessions of the hearing, then the City Council
may at its sole discretion by ordinance establish the position of Hearing
Officer and delegate to said officer the authority to conduct said hearing.
   (B)   The Hearing Officer alternative process shall be established and
conducted in the following manner.
      (1)   Appointment, qualifications and duties of Hearing Officer. The City
Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer to govern the proceedings under this
chapter. The Hearing Officer will preside over the hearing. The Hearing Officer
shall be a licensed attorney in the state. The Hearing Officer shall have the
duty to conduct a fair hearing, to maintain order and to ensure development of
a clear, complete and concise record of the proceedings. The Hearing Officer,
if requested by the Commission, shall prepare recommended findings of fact and
law for consideration by the Commission.
      (2)   Evidentiary standards. The Hearing Officer shall not be bound by
the strict rules of evidence as applied in the courts of the state pertaining
to civil actions. The Hearing Officer shall receive evidence which is material,
relevant and would be relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of serious affairs. When the admissibility of evidence depends upon an arguable
interpretation of substantive law, the Hearing Officer shall admit such
evidence.
      (3)   Public hearing parameters. All parameters for public hearings,
including, but not limited to, notice requirements, shall comply with this
chapter unless altered by the provisions listed in this section.
         (a)   Within a reasonable time from the date that the complete zoning
petition is filed, the date, time and location of the hearing on the petition
shall be determined by the Hearing Officer in consultation with the Commission,
but the hearing shall begin no later than 90 days following said filing.
         (b)   The city shall reserve the right to engage the services of one
or more court reporters to provide transcripts of all sessions of the hearing,
which transcripts shall be deemed to constitute the minutes of the hearing. Any
and all costs associated with such engagements, including the necessary copying
of transcripts required for internal use by the city, the Commission and the
Hearing Officer, shall be borne by the petitioner.
         (c)   Any and all costs associated with the compensation and expenses
of the Hearing Officer shall be at the petitioner’s expense.
         (d)   The hearing shall be treated as if it were equal in all respects
to a hearing conducted in normal circumstances by the members of the
Commission, except that the attendance of one member of the Commission shall be
deemed to constitute a quorum for the purposes of the Hearing Officer
alternative process. After the Hearing Officer has closed all testimony and
complete transcripts of the proceedings up to that point have been received,
Commission members will then begin their deliberations in order to prepare a
recommendation. Before beginning their deliberations, the Commission members
shall be required to sign an affidavit attesting that they have received and
read all the transcripts of the proceedings as a substitute for any sessions at
which any member may not have been able to be in attendance. The deliberative
and recommendation phase of the proceedings by the Commission shall require the
normal quorum of four members to be in attendance.
         (e)   If, in the city’s opinion, city facilities are not sufficient to
accommodate the number of persons expected to attend the hearing, the city may
arrange for the hearing to be conducted at another site. In such a
circumstance, the city is authorized to rent appropriate facilities and
equipment, including, but not limited to, an adequately-sized meeting space
such as an auditorium, as well as a sound system, chairs, tables and associated
services such as custodians and set-up personnel as may be necessary to conduct
a proper hearing. Any and all costs associated with such arrangements shall be
at the petitioner’s expense.
         (f)   The City Attorney or his or her designee shall serve as legal
advisor, and the City Administrator or his or her designee shall serve as staff
advisor, to the Hearing Officer and Commission.
         (g)   All testimony at the hearing shall be under oath or affirmation.
         (h)   Any person appearing at the hearing shall have the right to give
testimony and comment on the zoning petition. Any person testifying shall be
required to state his or her name and address and who he or she is
representing.
         (i)   The Hearing Officer reserves the right to prevent argumentative
comments, prohibit personal attacks on other parties, maintain order and
decorum during the hearing process and prevent irrelevant, incompetent and
unnecessarily cumulative or repetitive materials in the record. The Commission
members reserve the right at all times to ask questions of or reply to any
party testifying in order to clarify an issue, statement or fact.
         (j)   Any person shall have the right to be represented by a licensed
attorney-at-law at the hearing. Such attorneys shall have the right of
reasonable cross-examination. The scope of cross-examination shall be
determined by the Hearing Officer.
         (k)   The city, at its sole discretion, shall have the right to
determine whether the information provided can be evaluated by qualified
professionals on its staff, and if the city cannot accomplish this evaluation
because such qualified personnel are not available and the employment of such
persons would impose a financial burden upon the city, then the city shall have
the authority to retain the services of one or more professional consultants to
assist the city staff and Commission in the process of reviewing any aspect of
the zoning petition. Any and all expenses of such services shall be at the
petitioner’s expense. Such consultants shall have the same standing to testify
and to be cross-examined as may be necessary as any other witnesses at the
hearing.
         (l)   Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copies of any
documents filed with the city upon application and payment to the city of the
actual cost of reproduction in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act,
being 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
         (m)   The city, in consultation with the Hearing Officer and the
Commission, shall have the authority to establish reasonable rules and
procedures for the conduct of hearings and the order of business to be followed
during hearings.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 17.17) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.307 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, annul or repeal any ordinance, rules
or regulations previously adopted and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter or which shall be adopted, pursuant to law relating
to the use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this chapter to
interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties, except that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or required by such
other ordinances or such easements, covenants or other agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 18) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.308 FEES.
   Fees pertaining to petitions or applications for zoning text or map
amendments, special use permits, certificates of compliance, planned
developments, variations and for appeals to the Commission shall be established
by action of the City Council from time to time (see
Chapter 159). Such fees shall be due and payable to the city at the time of
filing of an application or petition. The petitioner or applicant shall, in
addition to such fees, bear the city’s cost of preparing and publishing the
public notice, bear the cost of preparing, copying or printing, and
distribution of all documents and drawings necessary for review of the petition
or application by the city, recording and filing of ordinances or documents
when such publication, recording or filing is required, and bear the cost of
all fees and expenses incurred by the city, including, but not limited to, fees
charged by a professional land consultant, attorneys’ fees and engineers’ fees,
when those fees are incurred by the city regarding any petitions or
applications heard by the Commission.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 19) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.309 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, clause or provision of this chapter be declared by the
courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this chapter as
a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 21) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.310 WHEN EFFECTIVE.
   This chapter is hereby declared to be urgent and necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health and safety and shall be in full force
and effect from and after its due passage, approval and recording and
publication as provided by law.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 22) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $1,000, plus the
city’s cost of prosecution, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, Chapter 22, § 20) (Ord. 02-8-2, passed 8-26-2002)
CHAPTER 159: PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES
Section
   
159.01   Planning, zoning and development review fees
   
159.02   Reimbursement of fees
   
159.03   Schedule of fees
§ 159.01 PLANNING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   There are hereby established fees for the review of development
proceedings by the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT PROCEEDINGS.
         (a)   Any petition or application filed to annex property to the city,
or to process an annexation agreement or amendments to an annexation agreement;
         (b)   Any petition or application filed for relief from/review of
parameters of
Chapter 158;
         (c)   Any petition or application to subdivide, resubdivide or
otherwise plat property filed pursuant to
Chapter 157;
         (d)   Any petition or application filed to address issues relating to
rights-of-way or easements, including, but not limited to, plats of dedication,
plats of vacation or easement documents; and
         (e)   Any other improvement or development of real property.
      REVIEW. Includes, but is not limited to: conducting hearings and
meetings; processing, review and preparation of documents; evaluation of
drawings for code compliance; legal, technical and professional review and
consultation; and similar consideration and review of proposed actions which
involve the earthmoving of land, construction or alteration of buildings and
uses and appearances of property.
   (C)   Said fees are listed in §
159.03 and shall be due and payable to the city at the time of filing an
application or petition for the desired development proceeding. Said fees shall
not be refundable. In the event the filing fee is paid by check and the check
is returned to the city due to insufficient funds by the financial institution,
the city shall suspend the review process. A cashier’s check that includes the
required fees, a $50 returned-check service charge and any other costs the city
may incur thereby shall be deposited with the city before the city resumes the
review process.
   (D)   Development proceedings initiated by the city (e.g., text amendments
to
Chapter 158) are exempt from fees.
(Prior Code, § 20.01)
§ 159.02 REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   Deposit. In the event it is necessary for the city to obtain
professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
planners, architects, surveyors, traffic or drainage experts, or other
consultants, in connection with any petitioner’s request for the city to
consider or otherwise take action upon any annexation, zoning change,
subdivision development, planned development (PUD), dedication, vacation or
easements or other improvement or development upon real property, then the
petitioner and owner of the property shall be jointly and severally liable for
the payment of such professional fees plus a service fee for each billing by
the city to cover the city’s administrative expenses as determined by the City
Council from time to time. At the time the petitioner requests action from the
city, an initial deposit, pursuant to §
159.03, shall be made with the city and will be credited against fees and costs
incurred for the above described services. The petitioner is required to
maintain the minimum deposit amount as stipulated herein at all times.
   (B)   Payments. The city shall remove funds from the required deposit upon
receipt of invoices for professional services or upon calculation of city staff
time as stipulated by this chapter. Once funds have been removed from the
petitioner’s required deposit, the city shall, within five working days, send a
notice of replenishment and a copy of such invoice to the petitioner requiring
an additional deposit to replenish the required deposit within 30 days of date
of notice.
   (C)   Late fees. Replenishment payments shall be received in the office of
the City Clerk within 30 days of the date the notice of replenishment is sent.
If the replenishment payment is not received by the city within 30 days, a $100
per day late fee shall be assessed to all notices. In addition, all work
pertaining to the development shall cease and the Building Commissioner shall
place a stop work order upon the subject property. No action on any request
made by the owner or petitioner shall be undertaken by the City Council or any
other official, quasi-official or deliberative individual or body thereunder.
The stop work order will be released and requests will be considered only after
the total late fee amount is paid in full, including the required minimum
deposit.
   (D)   Stop work orders. As applied to this section, a stop work order shall
cause all work being performed to immediately cease, including, but not limited
to, construction, plan reviews, inspections, issuance of certificates of
occupancy, earth work and utility installation.
   (E)   Withdrawals and denials of petitions. A petitioner who withdraws a
petition may apply in writing to the city for a refund of the initial deposit.
The City Council, may, in its discretion, approve the refund less any actual
fees and costs which the city has already incurred relative to the petition. In
the event the City Council denies approval of any or all portions of a
petition, a petitioner shall remain liable for all fees and costs which the
city has incurred relative to the petition, and no refund of a deposit or
deposit balance shall occur until such fees and costs have been paid.
   (F)   Professional fees. Any professional fees incurred as a direct or
indirect result of the petitioner, owner or his, her or their agent requesting
a professional opinion or otherwise requesting relief or assistance from the
city, whether or not related to real property, shall be reimbursed in
accordance with this chapter if, in the sole discretion of the city, a
professional opinion is desired or necessary.
   (G)   Default. Upon the failure of the owner or petitioner to reimburse the
city in accordance with this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall place a
stop work upon the subject property and no action on any request made by the
owner or petitioner will be undertaken by the City Council or by any other
official, quasi-official or deliberative individual or body thereunder; and
such request shall remain in abeyance until all outstanding fees are paid in
full. Upon any failure to reimburse the city in accordance with this chapter,
the city may, in its discretion, elect to place a lien against any real
property associated with the petitioner’s request. Interest in the amount of
1.5% per month shall accrue on all sums outstanding for 30 days or more. Such
lien shall be in an amount equal to the outstanding amount owed to the city.
   (H)   Assigning authority. The Mayor and City Council and the designated
city staff members are hereby authorized to assign requests for professional
services to the city staff or to consultants as the City Council deems
appropriate.
   (I)   In-house staff. When services contemplated by this chapter are
rendered by the city staff, then in such case the party making the request
shall reimburse the city for its cost incurred for services provided that go
above and beyond normal installation of improvements and/or duties pertaining
to the development. Examples of billable time shall include, but not be limited
to, field changes, site characteristics that prohibit design installation,
recurring failed inspections, as defined herein, recurring repairs of failed
inspection items and any other similar matters due to site characteristics and/
or unforeseen circumstances. Said reimbursement shall be at the rate of $50 per
hour.
   (J)   Remedies. The remedies available to the city as set forth herein above
are non-exclusive and nothing herein shall be construed to limit or waive the
city’s right to proceed against any or all parties. Any action arising out of
this section shall be filed in the 22nd Judicial Circuit, McHenry County,
Illinois.
   (K)   Agreement. At the time an owner or petitioner requests action from the
city such person(s) shall be required to enter into a reimbursement of fees
agreement with the city that contains the parameters of this section.
   (L)   Refund. After all costs have been paid and upon written request by the
owner or petitioner, any surplus funds in the account shall be returned after
approval by the Administrator or City Attorney.
   (M)   Professional fees incurred for individual residential property. In the
event it is necessary for the city to obtain professional services (such as
those listed in division (A) above) in connection with any work proposed for or
done on an individual resident’s property, including, but not limited to,
drainage, landscaping or structural issues, the owner of the property shall be
liable for the payment of such professional fees plus a service fee for each
billing by the city to cover the city’s administrative expenses, as determined
by the City Council from time to time. Said professional fees shall include
but, are not limited to, the costs of any consultation, review of drawings,
field inspections and travel expenses.
   (N)   Higher deposit. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in this section,
the city, through its Mayor, City Council or Administrator, may require a
higher deposit and a reimbursement of fees agreement containing additional
requirements of the petitioner for development proceedings or reviews after
taking into account the following factors: scope of the development; the
acreage of the development; and the anticipated expense of professional
consultants, including, but not limited to, engineers, land planners and
attorneys, reasonably necessary to review the proposed development request. In
addition, the city, through its Mayor, City Council, Administrator or
attorneys, may negotiate other items relative to the review or development
proceeding, including, but not limited to, the use of specific consultants and/
or attorneys, rates and budgets.
(Prior Code, § 20.02)
§ 159.03 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
Planning, Zoning and Development Review Fees
Proceeding Fee
Planning, Zoning and Development Review Fees
Proceeding                                     Fee
Annexation, payable at the time the property   $500 per acre or portion thereof
is annexed to the city
Annexation petition                            $200
Annexation or development agreement,
annexation or development agreement amendment  $300
(includes hearing or meeting)
Appeal                                         $500
Re-zoning, residential                         $500
Re-zoning, nonresidential                      $750
Special use permit, residential                $750
Special use permit, nonresidential             $1000
Zoning text amendment                          $500
Zoning variation, residential (1 lot)          $250
Zoning variation, residential (more than 1     $300 per lot
lot)
Zoning variation, nonresidential               $500
Zoning upon annexation                         $350
Subdivisions:
Detailed plan                                  $250 + $10/acre
Development concept plan                       $250 + $10/acre
Planned developments:
Amendment                                      $400 + $10/acre
Final plan                                     $400 + $10/acre
Preliminary plan                               $400 + $10/acre
Site plan review:
Amendment                                      $400 + $10/acre
Concept review                                 Time as billed (See Sect. 20.02)
Final plan                                     $400 + $ l 0/acre
Meeting, special                               $200
Street opening permit                          $100 plus $10,000 bond
Notes to Table:
Fees for mixed-use developments are calculated on the prorated acreage of each
use in the parcel. Fees for multiple-item proceedings are cumulative. If a
proceeding is consolidated (e.g., preliminary and final plat submitted
simultaneously), the fee is the total of the preliminary and the final action.
The acreage fee is per acre or part thereof.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Exhibit A)
Deposits Required for Reimbursement of Fees
Proceeding Fee
Deposits Required for Reimbursement of Fees
Proceeding                                        Fee
Annexation                                        $10,000
Appeal                                            $500
Other improvement or development activity,        $1,000
individual residential
Other improvement or development activity, multi- $2,000
lot residential or nonresidential
Re-zoning, commercial                             $5,000
Re-zoning, residential, per lot                   $500
Site plan review, greater than 2.0 acres          $7,000
Site plan review, up to 2.0 acres                 $2,000
Special use permit, nonresidential                $1,000 per acre, up to $5,000
Special use permit, residential                   $ 500
Subdivision or planned development, 20.0 acres or $15,000
more
Subdivision or planned development, up to 2.0     $5,000
acres
Subdivision or planned development, greater than  $10,000
2.0 acres but less than 20.0 acres
Zoning text amendment                             $5,000
Zoning upon annexation                            $750 per acre, up to $5,000
Zoning variation, residential (1 lot)             $1,500
Zoning variation, residential (more than 1 lot)   $2,500
Zoning variation, nonresidential                  $3,000
Notes to Table:
These fees are not cumulative. Only the highest applicable deposit for a multi-
part proceeding is required.
 
   CITY OF MARENGO
   REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES AGREEMENT
 
City of Marengo Account No.                      
OWNER:
Name of Property Owner:                                                              
Owner’s Address:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 
Telephone Number:                            Days                            Evenings                          
 
PETITIONER:
 
Name of Petitioner:                          
Petitioner’s Address:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
Telephone Number:                            Days                            Evenings                          
 
LOCATION OF PROPERTY:
 
General Location:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
 
Total Acreage:                            PIN:                          
 
Legal Description (attach as Exhibit A)
 
   (A)   DEPOSIT. In the event it is necessary for the city to obtain professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, planners, architects, surveyors, traffic or drainage experts, or other consultants, in connection with any petitioner’s request for the city to consider or otherwise take action upon any annexation, zoning change, subdivision development, planned development (PUD) or other improvement or development upon real property, then the petitioner and owner of the
property shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such professional fees plus 5% of the professional fees to cover the city’s administrative expenses. At the time the petitioner requests action from the city an initial deposit, pursuant to Exhibit B of this Chapter 20, shall be made with the city and will be credited against fees and costs incurred for the above described services.
 
   (B)   NOTICES and INVOICES. The city shall send a petitioner regular notices and/or invoices for the fees and costs removed from the required deposit thus far, and the petitioner shall replenish the required deposit within 30 days of said notice/invoice. At all times the petitioner shall maintain a balance equal to its deposit with the city.
 
   (C)   WITHDRAWAL OF PETITION. A petitioner who withdraws a petition may apply in writing to the city for a refund of the initial deposit. The City Council may, in its discretion, approve the refund application less any actual fees and costs which the city has already incurred relative to the petition.
 
   (D)   PROFESSIONAL FEES. Any professional fees incurred as a direct or indirect result of the petitioner, owner or their agent requesting a professional opinion or otherwise requesting relief or assistance from the city, whether or not related to real property, shall be reimbursed in accordance with Chapter 20 of the Marengo Municipal Code if, in the sole discretion of the city, a professional opinion is desired or necessary.
 
   (E)   STOP WORK ORDERS. A stop work order shall cause all work being performed to immediately cease, including, but not limited to, construction, plan reviews, inspections, issuance of certificates of occupancy, earth work and utility installation.
   (F)   DEFAULT. Upon the failure of the owner or petitioner to reimburse the city in accordance with this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall place a stop work upon the subject property and no action on any request made by the owner or petitioner will be undertaken by the City Council or by any other official, quasi-official or deliberative individual or body thereunder; and such request shall remain in abeyance until all outstanding fees are paid in full. Upon any failure to reimburse the
city in accordance with Chapter 20 of the Marengo Municipal Code, the city may, in its discretion, elect to place a lien against any real property associated with the petitioner’s request. Interest in the amount of 1.5% per month shall accrue on all sums outstanding for 30 days or more. Such lien shall be in an amount equal to the outstanding amount owed to the city.
 
   (G)   ASSIGNING AUTHORITY. The Mayor and City Council and the designated city staff members are hereby authorized to assign requests for professional services to the city staff or to consultants as the City Council deems appropriate.
 
   (H)   IN-HOUSE STAFF. When any professional services contemplated by this chapter are rendered by the city staff, then in such case the party making the request shall reimburse the city for its cost incurred in providing said professional services. Said reimbursement shall be at the rate of $50 per hour.
 
   (I)   REMEDIES. The remedies available to the city as set forth hereinabove are non-exclusive and nothing herein shall be construed to limit or waive the city’s right to proceed against any or all parties in a court of law of competent jurisdiction. Any action arising out of § 159.02 of the Marengo Municipal Code shall be filed in the 22nd Judicial Circuit County, McHenry County, Illinois.
 
   (J)   AGREEMENT. At the time and owner or petitioner requests action from the city such person(s) shall be required to enter into a Reimbursement of Fees Agreement with the city that contains the parameters of § 159.02 of the Marengo Municipal Code.
 
   (K)   REFUND. After all costs have been paid and upon written request by the owner or petitioner, any surplus funds in the account shall be returned after approval by the Administrator or City Attorney.
 
   (L)   HIGHER DEPOSIT. Notwithstanding any of the provisions in § 159.02 of the Marengo City Code, the city, through its Mayor, City Council or Administrator, may require a higher deposit and a Reimbursement of Fees Agreement containing additional requirements of the petitioner for development proceedings or reviews after taking into account the following factors: i) scope of the development; ii) the acreage of the development; and iii) the anticipated expense of professional consultants,
including, but not limited to, engineers, land planners and attorneys, reasonably necessary to review the proposed development request. In addition, the city, through its Mayor, City Council, Administrator or attorneys, may negotiate other items relative to the review or development proceeding, including, but not limited to, the use of specific consultants and/or attorneys, rates and budgets.
 
By signing this Agreement the petitioner and/or owner acknowledge that each of them has read the foregoing paragraphs and each of them fully understands and agrees to comply with the terms set forth herein. Further, by signing below, each signatory warrants that he, she or they possess full authority to so sign.
 
The owner and/or petitioner agree that owner and petitioner shall be jointly and severally liable for payment of fees referred to in applicable sections of the ordinances of the city, and as referred to hereinabove.
City of Marengo:                     Petitioner:
 
 
By:                                                                                                    
City Administrator
 
                                                                                        
Owner                                 Date
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 20, Exhibit B)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                            Code Section
5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.               115.52
                                     30.03;
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                 30.07;
                                     32.02;
                                     91.02
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.                 31.24;
                                     158.306
5 ILCS 275/1 et seq.                 31.01
5 ILCS 315/3                         31.46
10 ILCS 5/                           31.48
10 ILCS 5/1-3                        31.46
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4                      31.46
10 ILCS 5/9-3                        31.46
                                     33.25;
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.               33.27;
                                     33.31;
                                     33.34
30 ILCS 560/0.01 et seq.             35.33
35 ILCS 105/2                        111.03
35 ILCS 115/9                        111.02
35 ILCS 120/2-27                     111.20
35 ILCS 120/3                        111.01
35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                131.15
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.                111.20
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.              111.20
35 ILCS 636/5-50                     111.23
35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.                111.20
40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.              33.11
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                 116.05;
                                     116.06
50 ILCS 205/1 et seq.                31.24
50 ILCS 805/1 et seq.                52.03
50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.                110.17
50 ILCS 820/2                        158.003
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.                154.17;
                                     158.135
55 ILCS 5/3-5001 et seq.             157.016;
                                     157.137
60 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.                157.016
65 ILCS                              32.01
65 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.              158.001
65 ILCS 5/1-2-2                      30.08
65 ILCS 5/1-2.2-1 et seq.            36.01;
                                     36.02
65 ILCS 5/8-1-1.4                    111.02
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3                   111.01
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                     111.06
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(d)                  111.06
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23                    111.07
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-4                   33.03
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.           33.10
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3                     111.04
65 ILCS 5/11-12-1 through 5/11-12-12 32.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.            52.03
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.            52.03
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.1                 158.306
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                   150.05
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                    150.05
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                    110.01
65 ILCS 5/11-42-6                    110.01
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2 et seq.            52.03
65 ILCS 11-54.102                    110.01
105 ILCS 5/10-22.33B                 131.22
220 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                 154.02
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             111.20
220 ILCS 5/9-221                     111.20
220 ILCS 5/9-222                     111.20
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                   111.20
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.            154.05
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)                 116.02
220 ILCS 5/21-401                    116.01;
                                     154.02
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)              116.02
220 ILCS 5/21-801                    116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)                 116.01
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)          116.01
220 ILCS 21-201(v)                   154.02
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.                154.16
220 ILCS 65/4                        154.05
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.               52.05
225 ILCS 320/3(1)                    51.05
225 ILCS 330/14(g)                   157.016
225 ILCS 340/1 et seq.               154.17
225 ILCS 655/1                       157.016
225 ILCS 715/1 et seq.               158.248
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                115.52
                                     10.02;
                                     115.05;
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               115.07;
                                     115.67;
                                     115.69
235 ILCS 5/3-12(11.1)                115.69
235 ILCS 5/6-27                      115.69
235 ILCS 5/7-9                       115.66
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.                131.20
                                     111.07;
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.               130.03;
                                     131.25
                                     130.03;
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.             131.25;
                                     158.003;
                                     158.251
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                 52.05;
                                     157.102
415 ILCS 5/4(e)                      51.05
415 ILCS 5/14 et seq.                52.05
415 ILCS 5/14.1 et seq.              50.43
415 ILCS 5/14.2                      50.43;
                                     52.04
415 ILCS 5/14.3                      52.04
415 ILCS 5/1 through 5n.5            52.03
415 ILCS 5/17.1                      52.04
415 ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)        157.102
415 ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)(v)     157.102
415 ILCS 5/22.2(j)(6)(E)(iii)(vi)    157.102
415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                52.03
415 ILCS 60/1 et seq.                157.102
425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.             131.06
425 ILCS 35/1                        10.02
430 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                157.102
430 ILCS 45/3                        52.05
451 ILCS                             52.03
505 ILCS 100/1 et seq.               92.03
520 ILCS 10/1 et seq.                157.036
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             154.02
615 ILCS 5/7                         157.137
625 ILCS                             92.06
                                     36.02;
                                     36.15;
                                     70.01;
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.             Ch. 73, Sched. III;
                                     Ch. 74, Sched. IV;
                                     131.19;
                                     154.17
625 ILCS 5/1-105                     Ch. 74, Sched. II
625 ILCS 5/1-130                     70.04
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3                   131.19
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.             70.14
625 ILCS 5/4-207                     70.02
625 ILCS 5/6-101                     70.14
625 ILCS 5/6-204                     36.02
625 ILCS 5/6-303                     70.14
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3                  36.03;
                                     36.15
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3 et seq.          36.01;
                                     36.02
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4)            70.14
625 ILCS 5/11-302                    Ch. 73, Sched. VII
625 ILCS 5/11-304                    Ch. 73, Sched. V;
                                     Ch. 73, Sched. VI
625 ILCS 5/11-501                    70.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1306                   36.15
625 ILCS 5/20-204                    70.01
625 ILCS 40/1-1                      10.02
705 ILCS 405/1-1                     10.02
                                     10.02;
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               70.14;
                                     115.67
720 ILCS 5/11-20                     113.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1                      70.14
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.              131.05
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                    70.14
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                    70.14
720 ILCS 5/28-2                      110.16
720 ILCS 5/36-1                      70.14
720 ILCS 5/36-1 et seq.              70.14
720 ILCS Article 16                  70.14
720 ILCS Article 16A                 70.14
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.               70.14;
                                     131.25
720 ILCS 550/3 et seq.               130.03
720 ILCS 570/101 et seq.             70.14
720 ILCS 570/202 through 570/212     130.03
725 ILCS 150/1 et seq.               70.14
730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.             70.99
730 ILCS 5/5-4.5-65(e)               131.99
                                     36.13;
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.             70.14;
                                     110.35;
                                     110.36
735 ILCS 5/3-109                     70.14
735 ILCS 5/12-101 et seq.            36.14
750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                131.16
765 ILCS 90/1 et seq.                157.102
765 ILCS 205/0.01 et seq.            157.037;
                                     157.137
765 ILCS 226/1 et seq.               157.016
765 ILCS 20510.01 et seq.            157.016
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             35.33
775 ILCS 5/2-105                     35.34
775 ILCS 10/0.01 et seq.             35.33
775 ILCS 15/1 et seq.                35.33
810 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             36.14
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.            35.33
820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.               31.30
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.               154.08
                                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code            2026 Code
Appendix A            10.02
1.01                  10.01
1.02                  10.02
1.03                  10.03
1.04                  10.04
1.05                  10.05
1.06                  10.99
1.07                  37.01
1.08                  10.06
1.09                  10.07
1.10                  10.08
1.11                  10.09
2.01                  30.01
2.02                  30.02
2.03                  30.03
2.04                  30.03
2.05                  30.04
2.06                  30.05
2.07                  30.06
2.08                  30.03
2.09                  30.07
2.10                  30.07
2.11                  31.20
2.12                  30.08
2.13                  31.21
3.01                  31.01
3.02                  31.02;
                      31.99
3.03                  31.03
3.04                  31.04
3.05                  31.05
3.06                  32.01
3.08                  32.02
3.09                  31.22
3.10                  31.23
3.11                  31.24
3.12                  31.25
3.13                  31.26
3.14                  31.27
3.15                  31.28
3.16                  31.29
                      31.45 
3.17                  31.51;
                      31.99
3.18                  31.30
4.01                  33.01
4.02                  33.02
4.03                  33.03
4.04                  33.04
4.05                  33.05
4.06                  33.06
4.07                  33.07
4.08                  33.08
4.09                  33.09
4.10                  33.10
4.11                  33.11
4.12                  33.12
Chapter 4, Exhibit A  Chapter 33, Appendix A
5.01                  33.25
5.02                  33.26
5.03                  33.27
5.04                  33.28
5.05                  33.29
5.06                  33.30
5.07                  33.31
5.08                  33.32
5.09                  33.33
5.10                  33.34
5.11                  33.35;
                      33.99
6.01                  152.01
6.02                  152.02
6.03                  152.03;
                      152.99
6.04                  152.04
6.05                  152.05
6.06                  152.06
6.07                  152.07;
                      152.99
6.08                  152.08
6.09                  152.09
6.10                  152.10
6.11                  152.11;
                      152.99
6.12                  152.12
6.13                  152.13
6.14                  152.14
6.15                  152.15
6.16                  152.16
6.17                  152.17
6.18                  152.18
6.19                  152.19
6.20                  152.20
6.21                  152.21
6.22                  152.22
6.23                  152.23
                      153.01 
6.24                  153.13;
                      153.99
7.01                  34.01
7.02                  34.02
7.03                  34.03
8.01                  90.01
8.02                  90.02
8.03                  90.03
8.04                  90.04
8.05                  90.05
8.06                  90.06
8.07                  90.07
8.08                  90.08
8.09                  90.09
8.10                  90.10
8.11                  90.11
8.12                  90.12
8.13                  90.13
8.14                  90.14
8.15                  90.99
10.01                 91.01
10.02                 91.02
10.03                 91.02
12.01                 92.01
12.02                 92.02
12.03                 92.03
12.04                 92.04
12.05                 92.05
12.06                 92.06
12.07                 92.07
12.08                 92.08
12.09                 92.09;
                      92.99
12.10                 92.10
12.11                 92.11
12.12                 92.12;
                      92.99
13.01                 114.01
13.02                 114.02
13.03                 114.03
13.04                 114.04
13.05                 114.05
13.06                 114.06
13.07                 114.07
13.08                 114.08
14.01                 93.01
14.02                 93.02
14.03                 93.03
14.04                 93.04
14.05                 93.05
14.06                 93.06
14.07                 93.07
14.08                 93.08;
                      93.99
14.09                 93.09
14.10                 93.10
14.11                 93.11
15.01                 70.01;
                      70.99
15.02                 Chapter 74, Sched. I
15.04                 71.01;
                      Chapter 74, Sched. II
15.05                 71.02;
                      71.99
15.06                 Chapter 74, Sched. III
15.07                 71.03
15.08                 Chapter 74, Sched. IV
15.09                 Chapter 74, Sched. V
15.10                 70.02
15.11                 70.03;
                      70.99
15.12                 Chapter 73, Sched. I
15.13                 72.01;
                      Chapter 73, Sched. II
                      70.04;
15.14                 70.99;
                      Chapter 73, Sched. III
15.15                 Chapter 73, Sched. IV
15.16                 Chapter 73, Sched. V
15.17                 70.05
15.18                 Chapter 73, Sched. VI
15.19                 Chapter 73, Sched. VII
15.20                 70.06
15.21                 70.07
15.22                 70.08
15.23                 70.09
15.24                 71.04
15.25                 70.10
15.26                 70.11
15.27                 70.12
15.28                 70.13
15.29                 72.02
15.30                 70.13;
                      70.99
15.31                 70.14
16.01                 151.01
16.02                 151.02
16.03                 151.03
16.04                 151.04
16.05                 151.05
16.06                 151.06
16.07                 151.07
16.08                 151.08
16.09                 151.09
16.10                 151.10
16.11                 151.11
16.12                 151.12
16.13                 151.13;
                      151.99
17.01                 35.01
17.02                 35.02
17.03                 35.03
17.04                 35.04
17.05                 35.05
17.06                 35.06
17.07                 35.08
18.01                 35.20
18.02                 35.21
18.03                 35.22
18.04                 35.23
18.05                 35.24
18.06                 35.25
18.07                 35.26
18.08                 35.27
18.09                 35.28
18.10                 35.29
18.11                 35.30
18.12                 35.31
18.13                 35.32
18.14                 35.33
18.15                 35.34;
                      35.99
19.01                 156.01
19.02                 156.02
19.03                 156.03
19.04                 156.04
19.05                 156.05
19.06                 156.06
19.07                 156.99
20.01                 159.01
20.02                 159.02
Chapter 20, Exhibit A 159.03
Chapter 20, Exhibit B 159.03
21.01                 153.25
21.02                 153.26
21.03                 153.27
21.04                 153.28
21.05                 153.29
21.06                 153.30
21.07                 153.31
21.08                 153.32
21.09                 153.33
21.10                 153.34
21.11                 153.35
21.12                 153.36
21.13                 153.37
21.14                 153.38
21.15                 153.39
Chapter 22, 1         158.001
Chapter 22, 2         158.002
Chapter 22, 3         158.003
Chapter 22, 4.01      158.015
Chapter 22, 4.02      158.016
Chapter 22, 4.03      158.017
Chapter 22, 4.04      158.018
Chapter 22, 4.05      158.019
Chapter 22, 4.06      158.020
Chapter 22, 4.07      158.021
Chapter 22, 4.08      158.022
Chapter 22, 4.09      158.023
Chapter 22, 4.10      158.024
Chapter 22, 4.11      158.025
Chapter 22, 5.01      158.040
Chapter 22, 5.02      158.041
Chapter 22, 5.03      158.042
Chapter 22, 5.04      158.043
Chapter 22, 5.05      158.044
Chapter 22, 5.06      158.045
Chapter 22, 5.07      158.046
Chapter 22, 5.08      158.047
Chapter 22, 5.09      158.048
Chapter 22, 5.10      158.049
Chapter 22, 5.11      158.050
Chapter 22, 5.12      158.051
Chapter 22, 5.13      158.052
Chapter 22, 5.14      158.053
Chapter 22, 5.15      158.054
Chapter 22, 5.16      158.055
Chapter 22, 5.17      158.056
Chapter 22, 5.18      158.057
Chapter 22, 6.01      158.070
Chapter 22, 6.02      158.071
Chapter 22, 6.03      158.072
Chapter 22, 6.04      158.073
Chapter 22, 6.05      158.074
Chapter 22, 6.06      158.075
Chapter 22, 6.07      158.076
Chapter 22, 6.08      158.077
Chapter 22, 7.01      158.090
Chapter 22, 7.02      158.091
Chapter 22, 7.03      158.092
Chapter 22, 7.04      158.093
Chapter 22, 7.05      158.094
Chapter 22, 7.06      158.095
Chapter 22, 7.07      158.096
Chapter 22, 7.08      158.097
Chapter 22, 7.09      158.098
Chapter 22, 7.10      158.099
Chapter 22, 7.11      158.100
Chapter 22, 7.12      158.101
Chapter 22, 8.01      158.115
Chapter 22, 8.02      158.116
Chapter 22, 8.03      158.117
Chapter 22, 8.04      158.118
Chapter 22, 8.05      158.119
Chapter 22, 8.06      158.120
Chapter 22, 8.07      158.121
Chapter 22, 8.08      158.122
Chapter 22, 9.01      158.135
Chapter 22, 9.02      158.136
Chapter 22, 9.03      158.137
Chapter 22, 9.04      158.138
Chapter 22, 9.05      158.139
Chapter 22, 9.06      158.140
Chapter 22, 9.07      158.141
Chapter 22, 9.08      158.142
Chapter 22, 9.09      158.143
Chapter 22, 9.10      158.144
Chapter 22, 10.01     158.155
Chapter 22, 10.02     158.156
Chapter 22, 10.03     158.157
Chapter 22, 10.04     158.158
Chapter 22, 10.05     158.159
Chapter 22, 10.06     158.160
Chapter 22, 10.07     158.161
Chapter 22, 11.01     158.175
Chapter 22, 11.02     158.176
Chapter 22, 11.03     158.177
Chapter 22, 11.04     158.178
Chapter 22, 11.05     158.179
Chapter 22, 12.01     158.190
Chapter 22, 12.02     158.191
Chapter 22, 12.03     158.192
Chapter 22, 12.04     158.193
Chapter 22, 12.05     158.194
Chapter 22, 13.01     158.205
Chapter 22, 13.02     158.206
Chapter 22, 13.03     158.207
Chapter 22, 13.04     158.208
Chapter 22, 13.05     158.209
Chapter 22, 14.01     158.220
Chapter 22, 14.02     158.221
Chapter 22, 14.03     158.222
Chapter 22, 14.04     158.223
Chapter 22, 14.05     158.224
Chapter 22, 14.06     158.225
Chapter 22, 14.07     158.226
Chapter 22, 14.08     158.227
Chapter 22, 14.09     158.228
Chapter 22, 14.10     158.229
Chapter 22, 15.01     158.240
Chapter 22, 15.02     158.241
Chapter 22, 15.03     158.242
Chapter 22, 15.04     158.243
Chapter 22, 15.05     158.244
Chapter 22, 15.06     158.245
Chapter 22, 15.07     158.246
Chapter 22, 15.08     158.247
Chapter 22, 15.09     158.248
Chapter 22, 15.10     158.249
Chapter 22, 15.11     158.250
Chapter 22, 15.12     158.251
Chapter 22, 15.13     158.252
Chapter 22, 16.01     158.265
Chapter 22, 16.02     158.266
Chapter 22, 16.03     158.267
Chapter 22, 16.04     158.268
Chapter 22, 16.05     158.269
Chapter 22, 16.06     158.270
Chapter 22, 16.07     158.271
Chapter 22, 16.08     158.272
Chapter 22, 16.09     158.273
Chapter 22, 16.10     158.274
Chapter 22, 16.11     158.275
Chapter 22, 16.12     158.276
Chapter 22, 16.13     158.277
Chapter 22, 17.01     158.290
Chapter 22, 17.02     158.291
Chapter 22, 17.03     158.292
Chapter 22, 17.04     158.293
Chapter 22, 17.05     158.294
Chapter 22, 17.06     158.295
Chapter 22, 17.07     158.296
Chapter 22, 17.08     158.297
Chapter 22, 17.09     158.298
Chapter 22, 17.10     158.299
Chapter 22, 17.11     158.300
Chapter 22, 17.12     158.301
Chapter 22, 17.13     158.302
Chapter 22, 17.14     158.303
Chapter 22, 17.15     158.304
Chapter 22, 17.16     158.305
Chapter 22, 17.17     158.306
Chapter 22, 18        158.307
Chapter 22, 19        158.308
Chapter 22, 20        158.999
Chapter 22, 21        158.309
Chapter 22, 22        158.310
23.01                 157.001
23.02                 157.999
23.03                 157.002
23.04                 157.003
Chapter 23, 101       157.015
Chapter 23, 103       157.017
Chapter 23, 104       157.018
Chapter 23, 105       157.019
Chapter 23, 106       157.020
Chapter 23, 201       157.035
Chapter 23, 202       157.036
Chapter 23, 203       157.037
Chapter 23, 204       157.038
Chapter 23, 205       157.039
Chapter 23, 206       157.040
Chapter 23, 301       157.055
Chapter 23, 302       157.056
Chapter 23, 303       157.057
Chapter 23, 304       157.058
Chapter 23, 305       157.059
Chapter 23, 306       157.060
Chapter 23, 307       157.061
Chapter 23, 308       157.062
Chapter 23, 309       157.063
Chapter 23, 310       157.064
Chapter 23, 311       157.065
Chapter 23, 312       157.066
Chapter 23, 401       157.080
Chapter 23, 402       157.081
Chapter 23, 403       157.082
Chapter 23, 501       157.083
Chapter 23, 601       157.095
Chapter 23, 602       157.096
Chapter 23, 603       157.097
Chapter 23, 604       157.098
Chapter 23, 605       157.099
Chapter 23, 606       157.100
Chapter 23, 607       157.101
Chapter 23, 608       157.102
Chapter 23, 609       157.103
Chapter 23, 610       157.104
Chapter 23, 611       157.105
Chapter 23, 612       157.106
Chapter 23, 613       157.107
Chapter 23, 701       157.120
Chapter 23, 702       157.121
Chapter 23, 703       157.122
Chapter 23, 704       157.123
Chapter 23, 705       157.124
Chapter 23, 801       157.135
Chapter 23, 802       157.136
Chapter 23, 803       157.137
Chapter 23, 804       157.138
Chapter 23, 805       157.139
Chapter 23, 806       157.140
Chapter 23, 901       157.016
Chapter 23, 902       157.016
Chapter 23, App. A    Chapter 157, Appendix A
Chapter 23, App. B    Chapter 157, Appendix B
Chapter 23, App. C    Chapter 157, Appendix C
Chapter 23, App. D    Chapter 157, Appendix D
Chapter 23, App. E    Chapter 157, Appendix E
Chapter 23, App. F    Chapter 157, Appendix F
Chapter 23, App. G    Chapter 157, Appendix G
Chapter 23, App. H    Chapter 157, Appendix H
24.01                 150.01
24.02                 150.02
24.03                 150.03
24.04                 150.04
24.05                 150.05;
                      150.99
24.06                 150.06
24.07                 150.07
24.08                 152.18
24.09                 150.08
24.10                 150.09
24.11                 150.10
24.12                 150.11
24.13                 150.99
24.15                 150.12
24.16                 150.13
24.17                 150.14
24.18                 150.15
24.19                 150.99
24.20                 150.16
Chapter 24, Exhibit A 150.17
25.01                 50.01
25.02                 50.01
25.03                 50.01
25.04                 50.02
25.05                 50.03
25.06                 50.03
25.07                 50.04
25.08                 50.05
25.09                 50.06
25.10                 50.07
25.11                 50.03
25.12                 50.08
25.13                 50.09
25.14                 50.10
25.15                 50.11
25.16                 50.12
25.17                 50.13;
                      50.99
25.18                 50.14
25.19                 50.15
25.20                 50.16
25.21                 50.17
25.22                 50.18
25.23                 50.19
25.24                 50.20
25.25                 50.21
25.26                 50.22
25.27                 50.23
25.28                 50.24
25.29                 50.25
25.30                 50.26
25.31                 50.27
25.32                 50.28
25.33                 50.29
25.34                 50.30
25.35                 50.31
25.36                 50.32
25.37                 50.33
25.38                 50.34
25.39                 50.35
25.40                 50.36
25.41                 50.37
25.42                 50.38
25.43                 50.39
25.44                 50.40
25.45                 50.41
25.46                 50.42
25.47                 50.43
25.48                 50.44
25.49                 50.99
Chapter 25, Exhibit A 50.02
26.01                 51.01
26.02                 51.02
26.03                 51.03
26.04                 51.04
26.05                 51.05
26.06                 51.06
27.01                 116.01
27.02                 116.02
27.03                 116.03
27.04                 116.04
27.05                 116.05
27.06                 116.06
29.01                 155.01
29.02                 155.02
29.03                 155.03
29.04                 155.04
30.01                 52.01
30.02                 52.02
30.03                 52.03
30.04                 52.04
30.05                 52.05
30.06                 52.06
30.07                 52.07
30.08                 52.07
30.09                 52.07
30.10                 52.08
30.11                 52.99
30.12                 52.09
30.13                 52.10
30.14                 52.11
30.15                 52.12
30.17                 52.13
Chapter 30, Exhibit A Chapter 52, Appendix A
Chapter 30, Exhibit B Chapter 52, Appendix B
Chapter 30, Exhibit C Chapter 52, Appendix C
31.01                 110.15;
                      110.99
31.02                 110.16;
                      110.99
31.03                 110.17;
                      110.99
32.01                 110.30
32.02                 110.31
32.03                 110.31
32.04                 110.32
32.05                 110.33
32.06                 110.34
32.07                 110.35
32.08                 110.99
32.09                 110.36
32.10                 110.01;
                      110.99
33.01                 115.01
33.02                 115.02
33.03                 115.03
33.04                 115.04
33.05                 115.05
33.06                 115.06
33.07                 115.07
33.08                 115.08
33.09                 115.09
33.10                 115.20
33.11                 115.21
33.12                 115.22
33.13                 115.23
33.14                 115.24
33.15                 115.25
33.16                 115.26
33.17                 115.27
33.18                 115.28
33.19                 115.29
33.20                 115.30
33.21                 115.31
33.22                 115.32
33.23                 115.33
33.24                 115.34
33.25                 115.45
33.26                 115.46;
                      115.99
33.27                 115.47;
                      115.99
33.28                 115.48;
                      115.99
33.29                 115.49
33.30                 115.65
33.31                 115.50
33.32                 115.66
33.33                 115.67
33.34                 115.51
33.35                 115.68
33.36                 115.69
33.37                 115.99
33.38                 115.52
34.01                 111.01
34.02                 111.02
34.03                 111.03
34.04                 111.04
34.05                 111.05;
                      111.99
34.06                 111.06;
                      111.99
34.07                 111.07
35.01                 112.01
35.02                 112.02
35.03                 112.03
35.04                 112.04
35.05                 112.05
35.06                 112.06
35.08                 112.08
35.09                 112.09
35.10                 112.10
35.11                 112.11
35.12                 112.12
35.13                 112.99
35.14                 112.13
35.15                 112.14
36.01                 117.01
36A.01                117.25
36.02                 117.02
36A.02                117.26
36.03                 117.03
36A.03                117.27
36.04                 117.04
36A.04                117.28
36.05                 117.05
36A.05                117.29
36.06                 117.06
36A.06                117.99
36.07                 117.07
36.08                 117.08
36.09                 117.09
36.10                 117.10
37.01                 111.20
37.02                 111.21
37.03                 111.22
37.04                 111.23
37.05                 111.24
38.01                 154.01
38.02                 154.02
38.03                 154.03
38.04                 154.04
38.05                 154.05
38.06                 154.06
38.07                 154.07
38.08                 154.08
38.09                 154.09
38.10                 154.10
38.11                 154.11
38.12                 154.12
38.13                 154.13
38.14                 154.14
38.15                 154.15
38.16                 154.16
38.17                 154.17
38.18                 154.18
38.19                 154.19
38.20                 154.20
38.21                 154.21
38.22                 154.22
38.23                 154.99
38.24                 154.23
40.01                 130.01;
                      130.99
40.02                 130.02;
                      130.99
40.03                 130.03;
                      130.99
40.04                 130.04;
                      130.99
40.05                 130.99
43.01                 131.01;
                      131.99
43.02                 131.02;
                      131.99
43.03                 131.03;
                      131.99
43.04                 131.04;
                      131.99
43.05                 131.05;
                      131.99
43.06                 131.06
43.07                 131.07
43.08                 131.08;
                      131.99
43.09                 131.09;
                      131.99
43.10                 131.10
43.11                 131.11
43.12                 131.12
43.13                 131.13
43.14                 131.14
43.15                 131.15;
                      131.99
43.16                 131.16;
                      131.99
43.17                 131.17;
                      131.99
43.18                 131.18;
                      131.99
43.19                 131.19;
                      131.99
43.20                 131.20
43.21                 131.21
43.22                 131.22;
                      131.99
43.23                 131.23;
                      131.99
43.24                 131.24;
                      131.99
43.25                 131.25;
                      131.99
43.26                 131.99
44.01                 113.01
44.02                 113.02
44.03                 113.03
44.04                 113.04
44.05                 113.05
44.06                 113.06
44.07                 113.07
44.08                 113.08
44.09                 113.09
44.10                 113.10
44.11                 113.11
44.12                 113.12
44.13                 113.99
44.14                 113.13
45.01                 36.01
45.02                 36.02
45.03                 36.03
45.04                 36.04
45.05                 36.05
45.06                 36.06
45.07                 36.07
45.08                 36.08
45.09                 36.09
45.10                 36.10
45.11                 36.11
45.12                 36.12
45.13                 36.13
45.14                 36.14
45.15                 36.15
45.16                 36.16
45.17                 36.17
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
00-11-2  - -         31.20
01-2-5   - -         50.17
01-2-6   - -         114.04
01-3-5   - -         72.01
01-4-4   - -         32.01
01-6-4   - -         Chapter 73, Sched. VII
01-7-1   - -         70.01;
                     70.99
01-8-5   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
01-8-1   - -         71.01;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
01-8-3   - -         131.09
                     70.11;
01-10-04 - -         71.01;
                     71.03;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
01-10-05 - -         70.13
                     37.01;
01-10-6  - -         70.13;
                     70.99
                     37.01;
                     70.13;
02-2-2   - -         71.02;
                     71.04;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. III
02-8-3   - -         10.02
02-9-1   - -         115.68
                     70.13;
03-1-2   - -         71.01;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
                     158.003;
03-1-8   - -         158.206;
                     158.295
                     50.24;
04-2-1   - -         50.25;
                     50.38;
                     158.024
                     153.32;
04-3-1   - -         158.156;
                     158.176 
                     158.178
04-4-1   - -         150.02
04-4-2   - -         131.16
04-5-2   - -         131.19;
                     131.99
04-5-4   - -         Chapter 73, Sched. IV
04-5-5   - -         158.159
04-8-2   - -         Chapter 73, Sched. VII
04-8-4   - -         115.33
                     71.01;
04-11-1  - -         Chapter 74, Sched. IV;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
05-2-2   - -         150.06;
                     150.14
                     50.24;
05-3-1   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
                     52.03;
05-3-2   - -         52.06;
                     52.09;
                     52.11
05-4-1   - -         156.01 
                     156.04
05-4-2   - -         156.04
05-6-2   - -         32.02
                     150.11;
05-8-2   - -         150.14;
                     150.17
05-10-1  - -         31.20
                     50.34;
05-11-4  - -         50.43;
                     50.99;
                     150.11
06-1-3   - -         115.05;
                     115.24
06-3-1   - -         Chapter 74, Sched. V
06-5-1   - -         131.22
06-5-3   - -         50.44;
                     150.17
06-6-4   - -         150.17
06-06-4  - -         154.04
06-8-1   - -         37.01
06-11-3  - -         155.04
06-12-3  - -         158.015;
                     158.179
07-1-10  - -         150.06
07-2-1   - -         115.05
07-2-3   - -         150.01;
                     150.02
                     50.24;
07-3-6   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
07-6-4   - -         30.07
07-7-2   - -         50.09
                     154.01 
07-11-1  - -         154.23;
                     154.99
07-11-2  - -         116.01 
                     116.06
08-1-2   - -         71.01;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
08-1-3   - -         92.12
                     158.003;
08-1-4   - -         158.048;
                     158.052
08-2-1   - -         52.04
                     50.24;
08-4-1   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
08-5-1   - -         32.02
08-5-3   - -         150.17
                     115.04;
08-5-4   - -         115.05;
                     115.29;
                     115.33
08-8-2   - -         155.01;
                     155.02
08-9-1   - -         31.03
08-9-2   - -         Chapter 73, Sched. VII
08-9-5   - -         31.20
08-11-1  - -         131.08;
                     131.99
09-4-1   - -         150.12
09-5-2   - -         70.02
09-5-3   - -         115.69
09-5-4   - -         115.24;
                     115.28
09-7-2   - -         37.01;
                     93.08
09-8-5   - -         10.02
09-9-1   - -         115.29
09-9-2   - -         158.156 
                     158.159
09-9-3   - -         110.17
09-12-6  - -         150.01
10-3-1   - -         111.06
10-4-1   - -         111.06
10-6-4   - -         92.09
10-6-3   - -         115.05
10-7-3   - -         111.20;
                     111.21
10-8-2   - -         131.15;
                     131.99
11-8-2   - -         50.38
11-11-1  - -         115.06
                     110.33;
12-5-3   - -         115.52;
                     115.66
12-5-5   - -         115.05
12-9-1   - -         Chapter 73, Sched. VII
12-10-2  - -         131.06
12-10-3  - -         110.33
13-6-2   - -         110.15
13-6-4   - -         92.09
13-7-1   - -         71.01;
                     Chapter 74, Sched. II
13-8-1   - -         112.11
14-3-2   - -         Chapter 74, Sched. III
14-3-3   - -         50.38
14-3-5   - -         131.05
14-9-1   - -         30.01
14-9-5   - -         50.14
15-3-1   - -         131.15;
                     131.99
15-6-1   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
15-11-1  - -         155.01 
                     155.03
16-5-2   - -         50.25;
                     50.38
16-5-3   - -         115.05
16-8-3   - -         155.01;
                     155.02
16-9-2   - -         115.05
                     30.08;
17-6-2   - -         32.01;
                     32.02
17-8-1   - -         150.14;
                     150.17
17-11-2  - -         150.01;
                     150.02
18-3-1   - -         110.01;
                     112.99
                     50.25;
18-6-2   - -         50.38;
                     50.44
18-7-2   - -         154.04;
                     154.17
18-9-1   - -         115.29
19-3-1   - -         115.07
19-3-3   - -         115.07
                     131.23;
19-4-1   - -         131.24;
                     131.99
19-6-1   - -         115.07
19-9-1   - -         93.08
                     158.161;
                     158.177 
19-10-2  - -         158.179;
                     158.194;
                     158.209
19-11-1  - -         115.28
19-12-1  - -         30.03
                     37.01;
20-01-01 - -         131.25;
                     131.99
                     110.01;
20-7-2   - -         112.13;
                     112.14
20-8-1   - -         115.07
20-9-2   - -         31.20
20-11-1  - -         155.01
20-12-4  - -         115.07
21-5-1   - -         158.176
21-7-3   - -         91.02
22-3-2   - -         50.14
                     50.02;
22-3-3   - -         50.33;
                     50.99
22-6-6   - -         115.07
22-7-2   - -         115.07
22-11-1  - -         115.07
23-5-8   - -         70.01;
                     70.99
23-9-25  - -         111.06
24-4-3   - -         91.02
24-4-4   - -         91.02
                     158.001 
                     158.003;
                     158.015 
                     158.025;
                     158.040 
                     158.057;
                     158.070 
                     158.077;
                     158.090 
                     158.101;
                     158.115 
                     158.122;
                     158.135 
                     158.144;
                     158.155 
02-8-2   8-26-2002   158.161;
                     158.175 
                     158.179;
                     158.190 
                     158.194;
                     158.205 
                     158.209;
                     158.220 
                     158.229;
                     158.240 
                     158.252;
                     158.265 
                     158.277;
                     158.290 
                     158.310;
                     158.999
                     113.01 
02-8-4   8-26-2002   113.13;
                     113.99
02-8-6   8-26-2002   153.25 
                     153.39
22-9-2   9-26-2022   152.18
23-01-1  1-9-2023    115.52
23-03-2  3-13-2023   30.03
23-5-1   5-8-2023    50.03;
                     50.08
                     37.01;
                     71.01;
                     Ch. 74, Sched. IV;
                     93.99;
                     130.01 
                     130.04;
23-5-2   5-8-2023    130.99;
                     131.01 
                     131.06;
                     131.09;
                     131.15 
                     131.17;
                     131.99
24-11-6  5-8-2023    50.08
                     158.003;
                     158.156;
23-7-2   7-10-2023   158.161;
                     158.209;
                     158.250
23-8-2   8-28-2023   70.14
23-9-1   9-11-2023   30.03
23-9-2   9-25-2023   111.06
-        12-11-2023  31.30
                     117.25 
24-1-2   1-22-2024   117.29;
                     117.99
24-2-3   2-26-2024   92.09;
                     92.99
24-8-3   8-12-2024   110.01;
                     110.99
24-9-1   9-9-2024    31.20
                     Ch. 73, Sched. IV;
24-10-1  10-14-2024  Ch. 73, Sched. VI;
                     Ch. 73, Sched. VII
                     50.02;
                     50.08;
24-11-1  11-12-2024  50.20;
                     50.21;
                     50.24;
                     50.36
25-2-1   2-10-2025   110.01;
                     110.99
25-2-3   2-24-2025   150.01;
                     150.02
25-4-1   4-14-2025   115.07
25-4-2   4-14-2025   152.23
25-6-1   6-23-2025   36.01 
                     36.17
25-7-2   7-28-2025   115.05
25-7-3   7-28-2025   35.01 
                     35.08
25-10-01 10-13-2025  115.07
25-11-1  11-24-2025  115.07
                     50.25;
26-4-2   4-13-2026   50.38;
                     50.44;
                     50.45
26-5-1   5-11-2026   112.07
26-5-2   5-26-2026   Ch. 73, Sched. VII
                    
 
