ROCKTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2026-8, passed 3-3-26; and
State legislation current through 2025 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Rockton, Illinois shall be
designated as the Code of Rockton and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Rockton,
Illinois.
   COUNTY. Winnebago County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Winnebago County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Rockton. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as police officers.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Rockton, Illinois.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT. The Village President of the Village of Rockton,
Illinois.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he is unable to
write, his proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by
law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Village
President and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out. (5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-85).
      An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of
the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further
information.
      Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code, in any code adopted by reference herein, or in
any ordinance of the village, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense, or the doing of any act is required or the failure
to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision or of any
order made thereunder shall be punished by a fine of not more than $750, at the
discretion of the court or Administrative Hearing Officer of jurisdiction. Each
day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed
a separate offense and subject to fine individually. In addition to the fine
for violation, upon a finding or conviction of a violation of this code, the
court or Administrative Hearing Officer shall assess the costs of the
proceeding to the property owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The village shall be
entitled to recover its costs, including attorney fees, incurred as a part of
enforcing any violations or this code or other ordinance of this village.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14; Am. Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
      
33.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
35.   ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Village Treasurer
   
30.01   Office
   
30.02   Appointment; term
   
30.03   Compensation
   
30.04   Attendance at Village Board meetings
   
30.05   Advisory duties
   
30.06   Appropriation ordinance
   
30.07   Records
   
30.08   Annual account
   
30.09   Funds–personal use prohibited
   
30.10   Examination of audit
   
30.11   Bond
   
30.12   Qualifications of bank
   
30.13   Bank designation
   
30.14   Liability
   
30.15   Investments
   
30.16   Additional duties
   
30.17   Vacancy
   
30.18   Succession
Village Attorney
   
30.30   Office
   
30.30.1   Divisions
   
30.31   Appointment; term
   
30.32   Compensation
   
30.33   Advisory duties
   
30.34   Attendance at Board meetings
   
30.35   Preparation of ordinances
   
30.36   Drafting agreements and the ordinances and resolutions relating thereto
   
30.37   Examination of bonds
   
30.38   Representing village in litigation
   
30.39   Appeals
   
30.40   Dismissal of actions
   
30.41   Executions, collections; approval of court bills
   
30.42   Additional duties
   
30.43   Succession
Village Clerk
   
30.55   Responsibilities
Village Collector
   
30.60   Village Collector
Village President
   
30.70   Election and term
   
30.71   Duties and powers
   
30.72   Bond; oath; salary
Board of Trustees
   
30.80   Election and term
   
30.81   Powers and duties
   
30.82   Oath; salary
Attendance by Means Other than Physical Presence
   
30.90   Attendance at Village Board and committee meetings by means other than
physical presence
Village Administrator
   
30.100   Village Administrator
**** VILLAGE TREASURER ****
§ 30.01 OFFICE.
   There is created in the village the office of Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.02 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Village Treasurer shall serve for a four-year term, commencing on May 1
of the year which she or he is appointed and parallels the term of Village
President. The Village President shall appoint the Village Treasurer with the
advice and consent of the Village Board.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.03 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive such compensation as the Village Board
of Trustees may prescribe to fulfill the requirements put forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.04 ATTENDANCE AT VILLAGE BOARD MEETINGS.
   The Village Treasurer is required to attend Village Board meetings a minimum
of four times per year, being the last meeting date in each quarter of the
months of August, November, February, May and at other times deemed necessary
by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.05 ADVISORY DUTIES.
   The Village Treasurer shall be the financial advisor for the Village
President and Village Board of Trustees on all financial matters relating to
revenues collected, expenditures paid, fund balances, investments and
accounting procedures.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.06 APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE.
   The Village Treasurer shall be the financial advisor to the Village Board of
Trustees in the annual appropriation ordinance of the village, providing for
the proper appropriation of funds for the operation of the village for the
fiscal year beginning June 1 and ending May 31. She or he shall also notify the
Village Board of approaching depletion or deficiencies and when amended
appropriation is required because of fund depletions or deficiencies.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.07 RECORDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep records of his or her activities and books
which show a separate account for each fund or appropriation. He or she shall
issue receipts and file copies thereof with the Clerk for money received and
payed out money only on warrants or bonds signed by the Village President and
Clerk. He or she shall keep separate accounts for taxes levied for a specific
purpose, bond funds and special assessment funds.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.08 ANNUAL ACCOUNT.
   The Village Treasurer must file a copy of the statutory requirement or the
Treasurer's annual account with the Village Clerk. The Village Treasurer also
must file a copy of the village account with the County Collector before
September 1. This copy must be accompanied by an affidavit of the Clerk that
the copy is correct and was published as required by law.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.09 FUNDS–PERSONAL USE PROHIBITED.
   The Village Treasurer is prohibited from making personal use of any village
funds in his or her possession. The Village Treasurer shall be responsible for
the fidelity of his or her subordinates attached to the Treasurer's office.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.10 EXAMINATION OF AUDIT.
   The Village Treasurer shall examine the annual audited financial statements
and review the audit with the Village President and Village Board of Trustees.
He or she shall make appropriate recommendations for changes in procedures and
methods for future fiscal financial responsibility.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.11 BOND.
   The Village Treasurer, when appointed and confirmed by the Village Board of
Trustees, shall be automatically bonded by this subchapter with the premium
payed for from village funds.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.12 QUALIFICATIONS OF BANK.
   No bank shall be qualified to receive village funds or money until it has
furnished the Village Board of Trustees with copies of the last two sworn
statements of resources and liabilities which the bank is required to furnish
to statements of banks and trust companies or to the State Comptroller of
currency. The bank or banks designated as a depository for such funds or money
shall, while acting as such depository, furnish the Village Board of Trustees
with a copy of all statements of resources and liabilities which it is required
to furnish to the commissioners and the Comptroller.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.13 BANK DESIGNATION.
   When a bank has been designated as a depository, it shall continue as such
until ten days have elapsed after a new depository is designated and has
qualified by furnishing the statements of resources and liabilities as required
by §
30.12. When a new depository is designated, the Village Board of Trustees shall
notify the sureties (bonding company) of the Village Treasurer of that fact in
writing, at least five days before the transfer of funds.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.14 LIABILITY.
   The Village Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds
or money which she or he deposits in a designated bank while the funds and
money are so deposited. If village funds or monies are deposited in a
designated bank, the amount of such deposits shall not exceed 75% of the bank's
capital stock and surplus, and the Treasurer shall be responsible for funds or
money deposited in the bank in excess of this limitation.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.15 INVESTMENTS.
   Surplus funds which are not immediately needed shall be invested within two
working days at prevailing rates or better. The Village Treasurer shall follow
the procedures outlined in the statutes, such funds may be deposited or
invested in a whole series of investment options specifically listed in the
statutes. If these idle funds are not invested, the Village Treasurer and
Village Board of Trustees are remiss in their duties and violate the statutes.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.16 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties prescribed in §§
30.01 through
30.15, the Village Treasurer shall perform all other duties incidental to his
or her office which may be required of him or her by statutes and law.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.17 VACANCY.
   A vacancy in the office of Village Treasurer shall be filled by appointment
by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board of
Trustees for the remainder of the term.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
§ 30.18 SUCCESSION.
   Upon the expiration or termination in any way of the official term of office
of the Village Treasurer, he or she shall forthwith upon demand deliver to his
or her successor all records, papers and effects of every description in his or
her possession belonging to the village or pertaining to the office.
(Ord. 1985-9, passed 12-2-85)
**** VILLAGE ATTORNEY ****
§ 30.30 OFFICE.
   There is created the office of Village Attorney.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.30.1 DIVISIONS.
   In recognition of the varying legal needs of the village, the office of
Village Attorney shall consist of three Divisions:
   (A)   General Counsel;
   (B)   Special Counsel;
   (C)   Village Prosecutor.
(Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.31 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   The Village Attorneys comprising each Division of said office shall be
appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the Village
Board for a term concurrent with that of the Village President, and each such
Village Attorney shall hold office until his or her successor shall be
appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.32 COMPENSATION.
   Each Division of the Village Attorney's office shall receive such
compensation as the Village Board may from time-to-time prescribe. Initially,
compensation shall be set as follows:
   (A)   General Counsel is to be paid at the rate of $110 per hour or at a
rate set by the Village Board.
   (B)   Special Counsel is to be paid at the rate of $225 per hour for
projects within such Division. Special Counsel shall be available to the
Village President for consultation on potential projects within the Division at
no charge prior to the establishment of a file.
   (C)   Village Prosecutor is to be paid at the rate of $110 per hour or at a
rate set by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.33 ADVISORY DUTIES.
   (A)   General Counsel shall have the primary responsibility to be the legal
advisor and provide legal services to the Village President, the Village Board,
committees and each department of the village in all matters relating to the
general business of the Village which isn't identified or otherwise assigned to
Special Counsel or the Village Prosecutor. General Counsel shall also advise
and support village staff on paraprofessional legal services with regard to
village matters. General Counsel shall further be responsible for routine
litigation matters as well as municipal procurement and contracting matters.
   (B)   Special Counsel shall be the legal advisor and provide legal services
of the Village President and the Village Board on matters requiring specialized
expertise as determined by the Village President and Village Board.
   (C)   Village Prosecutor shall be the legal advisor and provide legal
services to the Village President and Village Police Chief in relation to the
prosecution of all ordinance violations and all traffic and quasi-criminal
related offenses charged by the village.
   (D)   All Village Attorneys shall, at all times, carefully guard and protect
the interests of the village.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.34 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   General Counsel shall attend all regular meetings of the Village Board
and, when requested, special meetings and committee meetings of the village.
   (B)   Special Counsel and Village Prosecutor shall attend meetings of the
Board when requested by the President and/or the Village Board.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.35 PREPARATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   General Counsel shall prepare such ordinances as the Village Board may
from time-to-time direct and present them to the Board and be prepared to
answer all legal questions that may arise in and about the passage of the same
and the legal effect and interpretation of the ordinances.
   (B)   Special Counsel shall prepare any ordinance in matters assigned to
them. Village Prosecutor shall prepare and/or amend such ordinances as the
Village Board may from time-to-time direct and present relating to the village
prosecutions.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.36 DRAFTING AGREEMENTS AND THE ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS RELATING
THERETO.
   (A)   All agreements to which the village is a party and all ordinances or
resolutions of the village concerning or authorizing such agreement shall be
drawn by the General Counsel or the draft thereof examined and passed upon by
the General Counsel before the same is made or adopted by the village.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Special Counsel shall draft and
review any agreements of the village relating to matters for which they have
been assigned.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.37 EXAMINATION OF BONDS.
   All bonds or debt instruments where the village is a party or interested
therein shall be referred to the General Counsel for approval unless requested
by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.38 REPRESENTING VILLAGE IN LITIGATION.
   (A)   The General Counsel shall represent, prosecute and defend the village
in matters relating to the village except those assigned to the Special Counsel
or Village Prosecutor.
   (B)   The Special Counsel may represent the village in conflict litigation
matters as determined by the Village President and Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Prosecutor shall prosecute all ordinance violations and
all traffic and quasi-criminal related offenses charged by the village.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.39 APPEALS.
   When assigned, Special Counsel, in consultation with General Counsel, or
General Counsel individually when Special Counsel is not so assigned, shall,
when in his or her opinion the public interest requires it, appeal any
proceeding from the judgment of the circuit court or an administrative body.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.40 DISMISSAL OF ACTIONS.
   No division of the Village Attorney's office shall be required to prosecute
any suit or proceeding when, upon investigation of all the facts in the case,
he or she becomes satisfied that there is no cause of action on the part of the
village. He or she shall have the power to discontinue any suit or proceeding
upon such terms as he or she shall deem just and equitable, providing that the
Village Board is in agreement. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
require any Division of the Village Attorney's Office to proceed with any
matter which said attorney deems such to be a violation of the Code of Ethics.
In such case, the attorney will notify the Village President, in writing, of
his or her objection.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.41 EXECUTIONS, COLLECTIONS; APPROVAL OF COURT BILLS.
   The General Counsel shall cause execution to issue on all judgments in favor
of the village and see that all collections are made. The General Counsel shall
have referred to him or her all court fees, bills and other bills of courts for
approval before the same are paid.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.42 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties prescribed in this subchapter, all attorneys in
each Division shall perform all other duties incidental to his or her office
which may be required of him or her by law.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
§ 30.43 SUCCESSION.
   Upon the expiration or termination in any way of the official term of office
of the Village Attorney, or any Division thereof, such attorney shall forthwith
upon demand of the Village President deliver to his or her successor all files
in such counsel's possession belonging to the village or appertaining to the
office.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-17-86; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 5-7-13)
**** VILLAGE CLERK ****
§ 30.55 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities to be fulfilled by the person
occupying the position of Village Clerk, whether that person is an appointed
official or an elected official, in compliance with state statute, are as set
forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The duties of the Village Clerk encompass administrative and electoral
responsibilities. The Clerk is the Chief Administrative Assistant to the
Village President and Village Board of Trustees. He or she shall also serve as
the Election Officer. All duties must be performed in compliance with both
state statutes and all applicable local ordinances as currently in existence or
as amended from time to time. Specific responsibilities include the following:
      (1)   Administration.
         (a)   Maintain village records and indexes relating thereto;
         (b)   Keeper of the corporate seal and shall affix the seal to public
documents as required;
         (c)   Keep all papers belonging to the municipality;
         (d)   Attend all meetings, including executive sessions;
         (e)   Keep meeting minutes;
         (f)   Public inspection of official minutes within seven days of
approval of the respective bodies;
         (g)   Index of minutes;
         (h)   Index of ordinances;
         (i)   Publish in pamphlet form all ordinances and resolutions adopted
by the Village Board;
         (j)   Prepare and have published Open Meetings Act notices;
         (k)   Prepare and have bid notices;
         (l)   Record bid openings;
         (m)   Prepare and publish legal notices;
         (n)   File for and maintain tax exempt status documentation relating
to village property;
         (o)   Prepare agenda and agenda packets for Village President and
Board of Trustees;
          (p)   Prepare and work with auditors for all municipal funds;
         (q)   Prepare and work with auditor from IDOT for MFT fund;
         (r)   Freedom of Information Act request compliance;
         (s)   Correspondence for trustees, Village President and all
administrative village correspondence;
         (t)   Work with developers on annexations;
         (u)   Appointment and supervision of Deputy Clerk;
         (v)   Purchase, such supplies for billing and clerical functions as
approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   Election Official.
         (a)   Prepare election announcements;
         (b)   Receive petitions for office;
         (c)   Canvas of votes;
         (d)   Administer electoral codes;
         (e)   Administer oaths of office;
         (f)   Maintain record of all oaths of office of village officials and
officers.
      (3)   Miscellaneous duties.
         (a)   Notary Public;
         (b)   Prepare proclamations;
         (c)   Public records search;
         (d)   Coordinator with U.S. Census Bureau;
         (e)   Such other duties as are imposed from time to time by state
statute, village ordinance or by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2000-15, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 2012-13, passed 8-21-12; Am. Ord. 2012-
14, passed 8-21-12)
**** VILLAGE COLLECTOR ****
§ 30.60 VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Office. There is hereby created the office of Village Collector.
   (B)   Appointment and term. The Village Collector shall serve until such
time as their successor is duly appointed and qualified. The Village Collector
shall be appointed by the Village President with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Compensation. The Village Collector shall receive such compensation as
the Village Board of Trustees may prescribe, from time to time, to fulfill the
requirements of the office of Village Collector.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. The Village Collector shall have such
duties and responsibilities as prescribed by state statute and such other
duties as the Village Board of Trustees may assign from time to time. Such
duties and responsibilities shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Collect and deposit General Fund revenues;
      (2)   Illinois Municipal League Risk Coordinator;
      (3)   Worker's compensation and liability claims;
      (4)   Liquor licenses and revenues;
      (5)   Vending licenses and revenues;
      (6)   Payroll:
         (a)   Data entry of hours;
         (b)   Calculation of payroll;
         (c)   Prepare payroll checks and supporting reports;
         (d)   Quarterly unemployment reports and checks;
         (e)   Quarterly 941 reports;
         (f)   Prepare W-2 statements and year end payroll reports;
         (g)   Federal employment surveys;
         (h)   Maintain all payroll records;
         (i)   Work with Illinois Department of Unemployment on claims;
      (7)   Accounts payable:
         (a)   Maintain chart of accounts;
         (b)   Data entry of invoices;
         (c)   Prepare warrant lists for Trustees;
         (d)   Cut checks for accounts payable;
         (e)   Mail checks;
         (f)   Maintain accounts payable files;
      (8)   Accounts receivable:
         (a)   Bill for property damage;
         (b)   Bill for water meters;
         (c)   Bill for IDOT Hwy. 2 traffic light maintenance;
         (d)   Miscellaneous billing;
         (e)   Collect all monies due to the village from whatever source and
in a timely manner as required by statute, forward money collected to the
Village Treasurer.
   (E)   Vacancy. Any vacancy in the office of Village Collector shall be
filled by appointment by the Village President with the advice and consent of
the Village Board of Trustees for the remainder of the term.
   (F)   Succession. Upon the expiration or termination in any way of the
official term of office of the Village Collector, he/she shall forthwith upon
demand deliver to his/her successor all records, papers and effects of every
description in his/her possession belonging to the village or pertaining to the
office of Village Collector.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 5-7-13; Am. Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-11,
passed 5-6-14)
**** VILLAGE PRESIDENT ****
§ 30.70 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The Village President shall be elected to a term of four years, and he/she
shall be the President of the Board of Trustees as is provided by statute.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
§ 30.71 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Village President shall have such powers and
authorities as set forth by state statute and perform all duties which are
prescribed by law and municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Appointments. Except as otherwise provided for in this code or by
state statute, the Village President shall appoint, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees, such other officers, standing committees, special
committees, commissions, and boards as prescribed by law and/or municipal
ordinances that may be necessary for the health, welfare and safety of the
village.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
§ 30.72 BOND; OATH; SALARY.
   Before entering upon the duties of his/her office, the President shall have
a bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon
the faithful performance of his/her duties. The amount of such bond shall be in
an amount as prescribed by the Board of Trustees from time to time. He/She
shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute and shall receive such
compensation as may be set from time to time by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
**** BOARD OF TRUSTEES ****
§ 30.80 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The Board of Trustees, consisting of six members, shall be elected to office
for a four year term as is provided by statute.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
§ 30.81 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative department of the village
government, and shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be
delegated to it by state statute and by ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
§ 30.82 OATH; SALARY.
   The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be from time
to time provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-3-13)
**** ATTENDANCE BY MEANS OTHER THAN PHYSICAL PRESENCE ****
§ 30.90 ATTENDANCE AT VILLAGE BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS BY MEANS OTHER THAN
PHYSICAL PRESENCE.
   (A)   Rules statement. It is the decision of the village that any member of
the corporate authorities of the village may attend any open or closed meeting
of the village via electronic means (such as by telephone, video or internet
connection); provided that such attendance is in compliance with the rules set
forth in this section and any other applicable laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. Any member of the corporate authorities of the village
may attend a meeting electronically if he or she meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The member must notify the Village Clerk at least one day before
the meeting of his or her desire to attend the meeting electronically, unless
advance notice is impractical; and
      (2)   The member shall only be permitted to attend via electronic means
if the member is prevented from physically attending due to:
         (a)   Personal illness or disability;
         (b)   Employment purposes or the business of the public body; or
         (c)   A family or other emergency.
   (C)   Authorization to participate.
      (1)   After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the corporate authorities desires to attend
electronically, the Village President, or presiding officer if the President is
not present, shall state that notice to attend electronically was received from
a member of the corporate authorities in accordance with these rules.
      (2)   The requesting member will be deemed authorized to attend the
meeting electronically upon approval by a majority vote of the public body.
      (3)   If approved, the presiding officer shall declare the requesting
member present.
      (4)   The member participating via electronic means shall identify
himself or herself, including name, address, office held and the reasons for
his or her physical absence.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the corporate authorities must be able to communicate
effectively. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the Village
Board shall take steps to provide adequate equipment to accomplish this
objective at the meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   (F)   Rights of off-site attendee.  A member permitted to attend
electronically will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting,
and participate in the same capacity as those members physically present,
subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and
adhered to. The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered and
counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending
electronically shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the Village Clerk, and placed in the minutes for the
corresponding meeting. A member attending electronically may leave a meeting
and return, as in the case of any member physically attending, provided the
member attending electronically announces he or she is leaving and returning.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 1-20-15)
**** VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR ****
§ 30.100 VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created in the village the position of
Village Administrator.
   (B)   Compensation.
      (1)   The Village Administrator shall receive such compensation as the
corporate authorities of the village may prescribe from time to time.
      (2)   Subject to the terms and conditions of state law and this section,
the village and the Village Administrator shall enter into an employment
contract which specifies in writing the level of compensation of the Village
Administrator, fringe benefits including levels of support for continuing
professional education, vacation and sick time, and other appropriate
provisions describing the working relationship between the Village
Administrator and elected officials.
   (C)   Appointment. The Village Administrator shall be appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for a
term concurrent with that of the Village President.
   (D)   Removal. The corporate authorities of the village may remove the
Village Administrator at any time by a majority vote of the corporate
authorities without incurring liability to the Village Administrator for any
compensation due him/her for the remainder of his/her appointment.
   (E)   Transfer or assumption of duties in absence or incapability. In the
event that the Village Administrator shall be absent from the village or
incapable of discharging such duties and responsibilities for any reason, the
Village President may appoint an interim Administrator or delegate the duties
of the Village Administrator to another department head.
   (F)   Education. The Village Administrator's minimum education should
include a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in the
field of business administration, public administration, community planning or
related field, and a minimum of three years direct employment experience in the
public sector. A preference will be given for strong accounting and budgeting
skills and for those holding a master's in public administration, law degree or
related advanced degree. Furthermore, the position requires the following:
      (1)   A proficiency in general accounting principles, public finance,
municipal accounting and budgeting.
      (2)   Experience in cost-benefit analysis, risk and project management
principles.
      (3)   Experience with communication, graphics and database programs.
      (4)   Strong communication and interpersonal skills.
      (5)   Verbal and writing skills associated with public and customer
service for effectively interacting with citizens, colleagues, elected
officials and various outside contractors.
      (6)   Research and record keeping principles and disciplines.
   (G)   Duties.
      (1)   Primary duties and responsibilities of this position include, but
are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Carry out directives of the Village President and the Village
Board of Trustees which require administrative implementation, reporting
promptly to the Village President;
         (b)   Serve as the primary staff person in procuring, administering
and monitoring the annual operating budget in accordance with all statutory
requirements; and serve as the primary staff responsible for monitoring the
budget and answering budget inquiries of staff and elected officials. Prepare
and submit to the corporate authorities a recommended annual appropriations/
budget for village operations and capital improvement programs. Keep the
corporate authorities fully apprised as to the financial condition and future
needs of the village;
         (c)   In consultation with the Village President, administer all day-
to-day operations of the village government, including the monitoring of all
village ordinances, resolutions, Village Board meetings and state statutes;
make such other reports as the corporate authorities may require concerning the
operations of the village; and serve as the office manager at Village Hall;
         (d)   Draft administrative procedures to increase the effectiveness
and efficiency of village government according to the best practices in local
government; advise the corporate authorities on public policy; and recommend to
the corporate authorities the adoption of measures as the Village Administrator
may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety and welfare of the
community or for the improvement of administrative services;
         (e)   Promote the economic and business development of the village
through the use of outreach, marketing and promotion of development within
Rockton and a variety of other means to produce expanded property and
commercial tax base and serve as TIF District Administrator;
         (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, oversee all aspects
of personnel and benefits administration including: evaluation, discipline, pay
and wage recommendations for village department heads; working with department
heads regarding evaluation, discipline, pay and wage recommendations for
respective department employees; and health insurance claims. The Village
Administrator is responsible for maintaining all personnel files for the
village. Propose to the corporate authorities such personnel rules and
regulations as the Village Administrator deems necessary to manage the
personnel policies of the village.
         (g)   Oversee the engagement of independent consultants/contractors
through drafting requests for proposals (RFPs) or bid requests, review the bids
or proposals and make a recommendation to the corporate authorities of the
village;
         (h)   Establish and maintain procedures to facilitate communications
between citizens and the village to assure that complaints, grievances,
recommendations and other matters receive prompt attention by the responsible
official/party;
         (i)   Promote economic well-being and growth of the village through
public and private sector cooperation;
         (j)   Attend all regular, special and committee meetings of the
village deemed to be appropriate, unless excused therefrom by the Village
President or other committee chairperson. The Village Administrator shall have
the right to take part in all discussions but shall not vote. The Village
Administrator shall assist the Village President and Board of Trustees as
required in the performance of their duties;
         (k)   Assisting the Village President and Board of Trustees in the
recruitment of residents for service on appointed village boards and committees
(e.g., Zoning Board of Appeals, Planning Commission, Police Pension Board, and
the like);
         (l)   Keep the Village President and Board of Trustees regularly
informed about the activities of the Administrator's office by written monthly
reports at regular meetings of the Village Board;
         (m)   Serve as the purchasing agent for the village, supervising all
purchasing and overseeing the contracting of supplies and services in
accordance with applicable law;
         (n)   With the assistance of the department heads, conduct and
maintain an inventory of all village real and personal property;
         (o)   Assist in the process of collective bargaining for the village
and recommend to the corporate authorities collective bargaining agreements for
consideration and possible final approval by the corporate authorities;
         (p)   Perform all other duties as may be assigned by the Village
President or Board of Trustees; and
         (q)   Serve as signatory on all checks, check requests, and purchase
orders related to the daily operations of the village. Further, serve as
signatory on all contracts for services and other agreements authorized by the
corporate authorities of the village, except when another officer has been
directed to do so.
      (2)   In addition to the essential duties and responsibilities of the
position, other needs arise on an as needed or less frequent basis. Some of
those duties include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Attend conferences, seminars, workshops and court proceedings as
needed; and
         (b)   The supervisory responsibility of this position includes, but
are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Provide administrative direction, supervision and coordination
for all department heads of the village according to the established
organization procedures including preparation of annual performance reviews of
all village department heads;
            2.   Work closely with department heads to assure that employees
receive adequate opportunities for training to maintain and improve their job-
related knowledge and skills.
            3.   Make recommendations to the Village President and Board of
Trustees on the appointment, employment, suspension or removal of village
employees and appointive administrative officers.
(Ord. 2025-22, passed 8-5-25)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Management Positions
   
31.01   Appointment of police department management positions
   
31.02   Appointment of police department rank positions
   
31.03   Chain of command
   
31.04   Deputy Chief
Police Pension Fund
   
31.20   Fund created
   
31.21   Definitions
   
31.22   Beneficiaries
   
31.23   Operation
Employment Specifications
   
31.30   Part-time police officers
Background Check Services
   
31.40   Background check services
Cross-reference:
   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see §§
32.35 et seq.
**** MANAGEMENT POSITIONS ****
§ 31.01 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT MANAGEMENT POSITIONS.
   The management position of Village Police Department shall consist of a
Chief of Police. The Chief shall be appointed by the Village President, with
the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2001-14, passed 10-2-01; Am. Ord. 2002-17, passed 8-6-02)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE DEPARTMENT RANK POSITIONS.
   The Village Police Department shall further consist of the ranks of Sergeant
and Patrol Officer. All Sergeants and Patrol Officers shall be appointed by the
Village Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, consistent with 65 ILCS 5/10-
2.1-1 et seq. The number of Sergeants and Patrol Officers shall be determined
by the Village President and Board of Trustees, as they may from time to time
determine to be necessary.
(Ord. 2001-14, passed 10-2-01)
§ 31.03 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   The Village Police Department shall be headed by the Chief of Police,
followed in rank order by Sergeants and Patrol Officers.
(Ord. 2001-14, passed 10-2-01; Am. Ord. 2002-17, passed 8-6-02)
§ 31.04 DEPUTY CHIEF.
   (A)   Creation of Deputy Chief rank. There is hereby established within the
Police Department the rank of Deputy Chief, which position shall be immediately
below that of Chief of Police. The rank of Deputy Chief shall be a permanent
position within the Police Department unless future action is taken by the
Village Board.
   (B)   Authority to appoint. The Police Department Chief of Police ("Police
Chief") shall have the authority to appoint one individual to serve in the
position of Deputy Chief provided that the appointment is made from within the
rank of the Police Department and such an appointment may only be made from
those individuals who are sworn full time officers of the Police Department
that have at least five years of full time service as a police officer with the
Police Department.
   (C)   Removal from appointment. The individual appointed by the Police Chief
to the rank of Deputy Police Chief shall serve in such appointed position at
the pleasure of the Police Chief, provided, however, if the Police Chief
terminates the appointment, that individual shall revert back to the rank held
immediately prior to the appointment to the Deputy Chief position with
seniority to be determined by the total number of years of service by the
individual to the village as an active police officer.
   (D)   Police Chief temporary vacancy. If after an officer has been appointed
as Deputy Chief of the Police Department, the position of Police Chief becomes
vacant for whatever reason, the Deputy Chief appointment shall continue. The
Deputy Chief shall assume the duties of the Police Chief until a new Police
Chief is selected and sworn. After the new Police Chief has taken office he or
she shall have full discretion as permitted by this section to retain the
existing Deputy Police Chief or to remove that individual and appoint a
replacement.
   (E)   Duties and responsibilities. The Deputy Chief is responsible for the
supervision, direction, planning, controlling and coordination of the
operational responsibilities of the Police Department. The Deputy Chief shall
perform all specific duties assigned to him by the Police Chief or as otherwise
delineated in the Rockton Police Department Policy and Procedure manual, as
amended from time to time. In addition, the Deputy Chief shall assume the
duties and responsibilities of the Police Chief when required. The Deputy Chief
shall have the rank, position and administrative functions necessary to carry
out his responsibilities.
   (F)   Compensation. Any individual who holds the rank of Deputy Chief within
the Police Department shall be compensated according to currently existing wage
and seniority schedules or according to those schedules as amended by the Board
of Trustees of the village from time to time.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 5-8-12)
**** POLICE PENSION FUND ****
§ 31.20 FUND CREATED.
   There is created and established a Police Pension Fund in and for the
village in accordance with 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq. commonly referred to as
“Article III of the Illinois Pension Code.”
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 8-21-01)
§ 31.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term POLICE OFFICER or OFFICER and
BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES are defined respectively as full-time police
officers or full-time police officers entitled to participate in the benefits
of the Pension Fund as provided by Article III of the Illinois Pension Code (40
ILCS 5/3-106) and the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund, as prescribed in
40 ILCS 5/3-128.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 8-21-01)
§ 31.22 BENEFICIARIES.
   The rights, powers, duties and functions of the Board of Trustees and the
members thereof, as such, and the rights and benefits of the various
beneficiaries of the Pension Fund shall be and are declared to be in accordance
with the Illinois Police Pension Fund (Article III of the Illinois Pension
Code, 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) and all amendments thereof.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 8-21-01)
§ 31.23 OPERATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall be appointed and elected as therein provided;
shall exercise such powers and perform such duties that shall be required by
the Illinois Police Pension Fund. All monies and securities belonging to the
Fund shall be held by the Village Treasurer subject to the order of the Board
of Trustees of the Pension Fund. An annual list of beneficiaries and a report
of funds shall be made as required by 40 ILCS 5/3-134. Members of the Board of
Trustees of the Pension Fund shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 8-21-01)
**** EMPLOYMENT SPECIFICATIONS ****
§ 31.30 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as they deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
rules and regulations of the Rockton Police Department, but the number of hours
a part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age.
      (3)   Pass a medical examination.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions or other convictions of such a
nature as to preclude the employee from working as a police officer in the
State of Illinois.
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
      (8)   Be eligible for employment within the United States.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police of the Rockton Police Department or his or
her designees. Part-time police officers serve at the discretion of the village
authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be
removed by the village authorities at any time with or without cause. Part-time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Rockton Police Department.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 3-6-12)
**** BACKGROUND CHECK SERVICES ****
§ 31.40 BACKGROUND CHECK SERVICES.
   (A)   The Village Police Department is hereby authorized to provide
background check services to the general public. Such background check services
may include the use of electronic fingerprint submissions.
   (B)   The fee for any member of the public requesting such background check
services shall be $75 per request.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 7-18-17)
CHAPTER 32: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
Section
Parks and Recreation Board
   
32.01   Board established
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Meetings
   
32.04   Open Meetings Act
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Expenditures
   
32.07   Term in office
Standing Committees
   
32.20   Committees
   
32.21   Purposes
   
32.22   Committee assignments
   
32.23   Procedure
   
32.24   Meetings
   
32.25   Quorum
   
32.26   Vacancy
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
32.35   Creation
   
32.36   Qualification
   
32.37   Appointment of Board
   
32.38   Rules
   
32.39   Exemption of Chief of Police
   
32.40   Secretary
   
32.41   Attorney
   
32.42   Compensation
Cross-reference:
   Attendance of village corporate authorities at Village Board and committee
meetings by means other than physical presence, see §
30.90
**** PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD ****
§ 32.01 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   A Parks and Recreation Board is established.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   The Board shall consist of seven residents of the village appointed by the
Village President with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
Of the seven members, one shall be a student attending Hononegah High School.
The members of the Parks and Recreation Board shall elect one of its members to
serve in the capacity as Chairperson and one of its members to serve as
Secretary. The Chairperson shall preside over all meetings of the Board and the
Secretary shall be responsible for taking and maintaining minutes of all
meetings of the Board.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.03 MEETINGS.
   The meetings of the Parks and Recreation Board shall be held at such times
and places as such Board shall determine and may prescribe rules and bylaws for
the conduct of its proceedings.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.04 OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
   All meetings of the Parks and Recreation Board shall be scheduled and held
in compliance with the provisions of the Illinois Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS
120/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   It shall act in an advisory capacity in all matters pertaining to
public parks and recreation;
   (B)   It shall consider the annual budget of the parks and recreation
programs and make recommendations with respect thereto to the Village Board of
Trustees;
   (C)   It shall assist in the planning of parks and recreation programs and
promote and stimulate public interest therein. To that end, the Board is
authorized to encourage and to solicit cooperation and participation from the
public in general and as well as private agencies and businesses;
   (D)   It shall act upon special requests for special use of any of the
public parks or playground facilities, including special use requests with
reference to the Walt Williams Public Pool.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.06 EXPENDITURES.
   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the Parks and Recreation Board to incur
any expenses in performing the duties assigned to it, an estimate of such
proposed expenses shall be submitted to the Village Board of Trustees, and no
debts of any kind or characters shall be made or incurred by the Parks and
Recreation Board unless such expenditures have been specifically authorized by
the Village Board of Trustees prior to the time such obligations are incurred.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
§ 32.07 TERM IN OFFICE.
   (A)   Each member of the Parks and Recreation Board except the Hononegah
High School student representative shall serve a term in office for a period of
four years. Initially, upon creation of the Board, again excluding the student
member, the first three persons appointed to the Board shall serve an initial
term of two years; the next three persons appointed to the Board shall serve a
full term of four years. Thereafter, upon the expiration of the initial term in
office each member or his or her successor shall then be appointed for a full
term of four years. The intended result is to establish a staggered appointment
system whereby three members of the Park and Recreation Board will be subject
to reappointment every two years.
   (B)   The student member of the Board shall be appointed for a single term
of one year.
(Ord. 2000-20, passed - -00)
**** STANDING COMMITTEES ****
§ 32.20 COMMITTEES.
   The following shall be the standing committees of the Board of Trustees:
   (A)   Administration Committee. This committee shall deal with village
functions involving:
      (1)   Administration; expenses;
      (2)   Community development;
      (3)   Public safety and legal.
   (B)   Public Works Committee. This committee shall deal with village
functions involving:
      (1)   Sewer, water and garbage;
      (2)   Buildings and parks; and
      (3)   Streets and walks.
   (C)   Budget and Finance Committee. This committee shall be comprised of the
following:
      (1)   Administration Chairperson;
      (2)   Public Works Chairperson;
      (3)   Next most senior Trustee;
      (4)   Ex officio members are Village Treasurer and Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
§ 32.21 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of the standing committees shall be as follows:
   (A)   Administration Committee - to address and consider all matters dealing
with the administrative functions of the village including issues involving
department operations, personnel, police and legal, and any other related
matters shall first be referred to and be considered by the Administration
Committee. The Committee, after consideration, shall through one of its
members, make a report and recommendations to the Village Board as a whole, as
to what action, if any, should be considered. Any recommendations so made shall
not be binding upon the Village Board.
   (B)   Public Works Committee - to address and consider all matters dealing
with construction on or maintenance of property within the village including
issues involving the construction or improvements of streets, walks, curbs,
gutters, public buildings or facilities, snow removal, sewer and water repair,
the maintenance of same, garbage and waste collection, letting of service
contracts dealing with related services and, generally, any other related
matters shall first be referred to and be considered by the Public Works
Committee. The Committee, after consideration, shall through one of its
members, make a report and recommendations to the Village Board as a whole, as
to what action, if any, should be considered. Any recommendations so made shall
not be binding upon the Village Board.
   (C)   Budget and Finance Committee - to address and consider all matters
dealing with the budget and financial functions of the village involving all
departments with financing and paying of departmental bills. Audit all bills
prior to the Village Board meeting and have a recommendation to pay the bills
for the following meeting. Also, any other related matters shall first be
referred to and be considered by the Budget and Finance Committee. The
Committee, after consideration, shall, through one of its members, make a
report and recommendations to the Village Board as a whole, as to what action,
if any, should be considered. Any recommendations so made shall not be binding
upon the Village Board.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
§ 32.22 COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   Each trustee shall be assigned to one of the two standing committees
by the Village President subject to the advice and consent of the Village
Board. In making such assignments, the Village President and the Village Board
shall give special consideration to Trustees with prior service experience
within the same standing committee.
   (B)   Within the Administration Committee each Trustee so appointed shall be
assigned to be primarily responsible for reporting to that Committee and to the
full Village Board on matters involving: administration, expenses; community
development; and public safety and legal. These categories shall be so
designated on the agendas of the Administration Committee and of the Village
Board and each agenda shall also designate the name of the Trustee assigned to
each category.
   (C)   Within the Public Works Committee each Trustee so appointed shall be
assigned to be primarily responsible for reporting to that Committee and to the
full Village Board on matters involving: sewer, water and garbage; buildings
and parks; and streets and walks. These categories shall be so designated on
the agendas of the Public Works Committee and of the Village Board and each
agenda shall also designate the name of the Trustee assigned to each category.
   (D)   The Chairperson of each standing committee shall be appointed by the
Village President. In making such selection, the Village President shall give
special consideration to the following factors: seniority on the Village Board,
seniority within the standing committee and prior experience as a committee
chairperson. The Chairperson so appointed shall serve until a successor is
elected. Committee assignments and Chairperson appointments shall be reviewed
on an election year basis every two years.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
§ 32.23 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Matters relative to the standing committees shall be referred to them
by the President and/or Board of Trustees. Written and/or oral committee
reports shall be submitted to the President and Board of Trustees detailing
committee findings, along with recommendations for such Board action as may be
required.
   (B)   The Committee Chairperson may hold such hearings, conduct such
meetings, and cause such studies to be performed as may be necessary to carry
out committee assignments, consistent with committee requirements and purposes.
   (C)   The Committee Chairperson shall conduct any meetings of the Committee
by calling the meeting to order, determining the order of agenda items to be
addressed, recognizing speakers, calling for motions on issues to be decided
and performing the other functions usually recognized as required of a
Committee Chair. The Chairperson, however, shall also be entitled to introduce
motions for consideration and to vote on all issues brought before the
committee.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
§ 32.24 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The following dates are for the regular meetings of the Village
Board and the standing subcommittees of the Board for the year 2012:
         January 3***      April 3         July 3         October 2
         January 17      April 17      July 17      October 16
         February 7      May 8         August 7      November 5***
         February 21      May 22      August 21      November 20
         March 6      June 5      September 4***   December 4
         March 19***      June 19      September 18   December 18
      (2)   All Board meetings begin at 7:00 p.m. and are held on the first and
third Tuesday of each month, except those marked by an asterisk.
   (B)   (1)   The standing Public Works Committee meetings shall begin at 6:30
p.m., the standing Administration Committee meetings shall begin at 5:30 p.m.
on the day preceding the Village Board meeting date. (Note: Committee meetings
will be held on January 3, March 19, September 4 and November 5 in conjunction
with Village Board meetings. On those dates Administration will be held at 5:00
p.m., Public Works at 5:30 p.m. and Budget at 6:00 p.m.) The Budget and Finance
Committee meetings shall be at 6:00 p.m. on the same date of the Board
meetings. All meetings are held in the Municipal Center located at 110 East
Main Street, Rockton, Illinois.
      (2)   The Municipal Center is handicapped/wheel chair accessible.
Individuals who require the services of a sign language interpreter and who
wish to attend any Village Board or subcommittee meeting, are required to
notify the Village Clerk at 815-624-7886, at least 48 hours in advance of the
meeting, so that accommodations may be made.
      (3)   The Village Clerk is instructed to send copies of the meeting times
to all requesting individuals and organizations and to cause notice to be
published in a paper of general circulation in the village.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03; Am. Res. 2006-111, passed 12-19-06; Am. Res. 2007-111, passed
12-4-07; Am. Res. 2009-112, passed 12-8-09; Am. Res. 2011-114, passed 12-6-11)
§ 32.25 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Trustees assigned to any standing committee shall
constitute a quorum. A quorum is necessary in order for the committee to
conduct business but a smaller number may adjourn a previously commenced
meeting.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
§ 32.26 VACANCY.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs in any Committee Chair, the Village President
shall, within 60 days, appoint a new Chairperson.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs in any standing committee as a result of the death
or resignation of a Trustee for any other reason, the vacancy shall be filled
by the new Trustee appointed or elected to the Village Board.
(Ord. 2000-10, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 2003-11,
passed 6-17-03)
**** BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS ****
§ 32.35 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, consisting
of three members, whose initial terms of office shall be one, two and three
years respectively and until their respective successors are appointed and have
qualified. No more than two members of the Board shall belong to the same
political party.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.36 QUALIFICATIONS.
   The members of the Board shall possess the qualifications required of other
officers of the village, shall take an oath or affirmation of office, and give
bond in the same manner as other appointed officers of the village. They shall
be subject to the removal from office as such other officers.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.37 APPOINTMENT OF BOARD.
   Such Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint all officers and
members of the Police Department of the village. All appointments made by the
Board shall be from the rank next below that to which the appointment shall be
made, other than that of the lowest rank.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.38 RULES.
   The Board shall make such rules and make such appointments and removals,
except those herein reserved to the President and Board of Trustees to
prescribe the duties and powers of all village police officers, hereby
affirmed, to preserve order, peace and quiet, arrest violators and enforce all
ordinances of the village, and all statutes applicable therein, such Board
having all other powers as provided by state statute (65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et
seq.).
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.39 EXEMPTION OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Pursuant to its statutory authority, the village hereby exempts the position
of Chief of Police for the village from being appointed by the Board of Police
and Fire Commissioners. The position of Chief of Police shall be filled by
appointment made by the Village President, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board of Trustees. The term of any person so appointed shall not exceed
that of the Village President. If for any reason the position of Chief of
Police becomes vacant, the Village President, with the advice and consent of
the Village Board of Trustees, shall make an appointment to fill the vacancy
for a period not to exceed the President’s remaining term in office. Persons
not reappointed as Chief of Police shall serve until a successor is approved.
The Chief of Police, once appointed, may be removed during his or her term in
office pursuant to the procedures set out by state statute with reference to
the President’s authority for removal of appointed officers (65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-
10).
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.40 SECRETARY.
   The Board may employ a secretary or may designate one of its members as
such. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the Board’s proceedings, shall be
custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the Board, shall keep a
record of all examinations held, and shall perform all other duties as the
Board shall prescribe.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.41 ATTORNEY.
   The Board may employ an attorney, of its own choosing, to represent the
Board in the event that the Village Attorney shall be representing both the
village and be prosecutor for the village, in any actions brought before the
Board, consistent with state statute (65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 8-21-01)
§ 32.42 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall be compensated
$800 each year served, which shall be paid on a semi-annual basis.
(Ord. 2025-20, passed 8-5-25)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
33.02   Safe School Zone
   
33.03   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment or discrimination of village
employees in the workplace
   
33.04   Disclosure of audio tapes
   
33.05   Fine for false alarm signals by alarm systems
   
33.06   Smoking prohibited within Village Hall
   
33.07   Prevailing wage adopted
   
33.08   National Incident Management System
Ethics Provisions
   
33.20   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Identity Protection Policy
   
33.30   Approval and adoption of policy relating to Social Security numbers
Civil Emergency
   
33.40   Definitions
   
33.41   Village President to issue proclamation
   
33.42   Notice
   
33.43   Duration
   
33.44   Authority of Village President
   
33.45   Construction of subchapter provisions
   
33.46   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Village of Rockton, County of Winnebago, Illinois, does elect to
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, effective January 1,
1983.
   (B)   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for 1,000 hours per year.
(Ord. 1982-6, passed 7-6-82)
§ 33.02 SAFE SCHOOL ZONE.
   (A)   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of the Illinois
Compiled States, the Safe School Zone Map produced by the village and attached
to Ord. 1996-26 is approved and adopted as an official finding and record of
the location in areas within the village of properties which are used for
school purposes and which are owned by or leased to any elementary or secondary
school or school board and of the areas on or within 1,000 feet of such school
property.
   (B)   The Safe School Zone Map approved and adopted pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall continue to constitute an official finding and record as
to the location and boundaries of areas on or within 1,000 feet of school
property owned by or leased to any elementary or secondary school or school
board which is used for school purposes until such time, if any, that this
section shall be amended to reflect any additions or deletions with respect to
the location and boundaries of such school property and Safe School Zone.
   (C)   The school board is directed and shall have the continuing obligation
to promptly notify the Village Clerk and the Village Attorney of any changes in
the location and boundaries of any property owned by or leased to any
elementary or secondary school or school board and which is used for school
purposes.
   (D)   The Village Clerk is directed to receive and to keep on file the
original of the map approved and adopted pursuant to division (A) of this
section and to provide at a reasonable cost a true copy thereof to any person,
agency or court which may from time to time request such a copy, along with a
certification that such copy is a true copy of the map approved and adopted
herein and kept on file. It is further directed that a true copy of the map and
this section shall be provided without cost to the Winnebago County State’s
Attorney.
   (E)   The following additional matters are determined, declared, recited and
stated. It is understood that the map approved and adopted pursuant to division
(B) of this section was prepared and is intended to be used as evidence in
proceedings arising under the criminal laws of this state and that, pursuant to
state law, the map shall constitute prima facie evidence of the following:
      (1)   The location of elementary and secondary schools within the
village;
      (2)   The boundaries of the real property which is owned by or leased to
such schools or school board;
      (3)   That the school property is and continues to be used for school
purposes; and
      (4)   The location and boundaries of areas which are on or within 1,000
feet of such school property.
(Ord. 1996-26, passed 11-18-96)
§ 33.03 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT OR DISCRIMINATION OF VILLAGE
EMPLOYEES IN THE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Acts of sexual harassment directed by an employee or supervisor
towards another employee and acts of sexual harassment creating a hostile work
environment for any employee of the village are prohibited.
   (B)   There shall hereafter be adopted and enacted the village Sexual
Harassment Policy, a copy of which is attached to Ord. 2000-1 and incorporated
and adopted as a part of the passage of this section by reference.
   (C)   A copy of this policy shall be provided to each person currently
employed by the village. The copies to be provided without cost to any employee
subject only to the requirement that each employee acknowledge in writing
receipt of a copy of the policy manual.
   (D)   A copy of the policy shall be provided to all department heads,
supervisory personnel, appointed officials and elected officials currently in
office. The copies to be provided without cost to the persons subject only to
the requirement that each such person acknowledge in writing receipt of a copy
of the policy manual.
   (E)   A copy of the policy shall be provided by each department head in the
case of an employee or by the Village Clerk in the case of an appointed or
elected official without cost to any person hereafter hired by the village as
an employee or elected or appointed as a village officer or official. Any new
hires or new official must acknowledge in writing receipt of a copy of the
policy manual.
   (F)   A notice shall be permanently posted and displayed within the Village
Hall declaring the village’s prohibition of sexual harassment and advising the
reader that a copy of the Village Sexual Harassment Policy is on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and may be inspected during regular office hours.
Consistent herewith, the Village Clerk is directed to maintain a copy or copies
of this Policy within the office of the Village Clerk and shall make it
available for public inspection during regular business hours.
   (G)   In that the Policy as adopted requires yearly training for employees
and supervisory personnel, sufficient money shall be appropriated each year to
meet the cost of such training.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed - -00)
§ 33.04 DISCLOSURE OF AUDIO TAPES.
   (A)   Custody of audio tapes. Subsequent to the recording of any meeting of
the Village Board of Trustees, the Public Works Committee, the Administration
Committee, the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Planning Commission, the audio
tape made at the time of such meeting shall be retained in the sole and
exclusive custody of the Village Clerk or Deputy Village Clerk attending such
meeting until such time as the official minutes of the meeting in question have
been prepared, approved or otherwise accepted by the Village Board of Trustees
or other applicable governmental entity.
   (B)   Public inspection. Once the minutes of any such meeting have been
adopted or otherwise accepted, the audio tape in relation to that meeting will
be retained in the office of the Village Clerk and be made available for public
inspection. The public inspection shall occur on the premises of the offices of
the Village Clerk during regular business hours. The Village President and any
member of the Village Board of Trustees may remove the tape from the office of
the Village Clerk for review. This may occur only after the minutes of any
meeting have been adopted and the tape must be returned to the Village Clerk in
an unaltered condition.
   (C)   Retention. Any audio tapes made at any meeting attended by the Village
Clerk or the Deputy Clerk shall be retained in the office of the Village Clerk
for a period of six months after the date of the meeting so recorded.
Thereafter, any such tapes of six months or greater in age may be destroyed or
taped over.
   (D)   Audio tapes not official minutes. The Village Clerk and the Deputy
Village Clerk may decide to audio tape or not to audio tape any meeting which
they attend in their official capacity. The audio taping of any meeting is not
mandatory and is not required by law. If any such meeting is audio taped, the
tape itself is not deemed to be a part of the official minutes from the
meeting, and although the Village Clerk and Deputy Clerk are required to keep a
full record of the proceedings, they are not required to prepare a verbatim
record of the proceedings of any meeting so taped.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 6-19-00)
§ 33.05 FINE FOR FALSE ALARM SIGNALS BY ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALARM SYSTEM. Any device designed for the detection of a fire, burglary,
theft, armed robbery or the commission of any other unlawful act or any
unauthorized entry into any building, place or premises.
      AUTOMATIC DIRECT-DIALING DEVICE. Any police, fire or other emergency
alarm system which consists of a telephone device or telephone attachment that
automatically or electrically sends over a telephone line a pre-recorded
message or code signal when an alarm system is activated.
      FALSE ALARM. An alarm system signal or communication from an automatic
direct-dialing device or other alarm system causing response by the Rockton
Police Department or the Rockton Fire Department, when at least one of the
following emergency situations are not present:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Burglary;
      (3)   Theft;
      (4)   Armed robbery;
      (5)   Commission of any unlawful act; or
      (6)   Any unauthorized entry into any building, place or premises.
      PERSON. Any natural person, trust, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user, owner or any agents, employees or other representatives acting either for
himself or herself or for any other person in any capacity of any other entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties; the masculine, feminine,
singular or plural, is included in any circumstances.
   (B)   False alarms.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transmit a false alarm to
the village. Any person having an alarm system or device on his or her premises
shall be subject to a charge of $25 for each and every false alarm over three
false alarms per premises per quarter calendar year.
      (2)   In any prosecution for charging a violation of law regulating
alarms, proof that a false alarm occurred at the particular building, place or
premises described in the complaint, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint owned, operated, maintained, controlled or leased that
building, place or premises shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that the person named in the complaint was the person who
transmitted a false alarm to the village.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-5-96)
§ 33.06 SMOKING PROHIBITED WITHIN VILLAGE HALL.
   (A)   Smoking prohibited. The public building located at 110 East Main
Street, Rockton, Illinois commonly referred to as the Village Hall is declared
to be a smoke-free area. No person after the effective date of this section
shall smoke or possess a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other form of
tobacco or similar substance used for smoking within the premises of the
building.
   (B)   Enforcement. The village and village officials shall make reasonable
efforts to prevent smoking in the Village Hall building by posting appropriate
signs and contacting law enforcement officers in the event of a suspected
violation.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be fined
$10 for the first such offense and no more than $500 for any second or
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 4- -98)
§ 33.07 PREVAILING WAGE ADOPTED.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “Act Regulating Wages of Laborers,
Mechanics and Other Workers Employed in Any Public Works by the State, County,
City or Any Public Body or Any Political Subdivision or Anyone under Contract
for ‘Public Works’,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics, and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
Rockton Village Board of Trustees is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction work in the Winnebago County areas as
determination being attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. As
required by said Act, any and all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by
the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois shall supersede the
Department’s June determination and apply to any and all public works
construction undertaken by the village. The definition of any terms appearing
in this section which are also used in aforesaid Act shall be the same as in
the Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply the general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by an interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or
of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employers who have filed their names and addresses requesting copies of any
determination stating particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 6-17-03; Am. Ord. 2004-19, passed 6-8-04; Am. Ord. 2005-
21, passed 6-7-05; Am. Ord. 2006-7, passed 6-6-06; Am. Ord. 2007-20, passed 6-
6-06; Am. Ord. 2008-10, passed 6-17-08)
§ 33.08 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The village hereby adopts the National Incident Management System pursuant
to Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD-5) and all village
departments and employees shall follow the provisions and policies set forth
therein in response to and in management of natural disasters, terrorist
attacks or other emergencies.
(Ord. 2004-26, passed 11-3-04)
**** ETHICS PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.20 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.,
hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section, are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village to
the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies that regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 5-4-04)
**** IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY ****
§ 33.30 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF POLICY RELATING TO SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   In order to establish a policy and rules for the collection, use and
communication of Social Security numbers in compliance with the Illinois
Identity Protection Act (the "Act"), the Mayor and Village Council hereby
approve and adopt a policy regarding the collection, use and communication of
social security numbers known as the Identity Protection Policy, a copy of
which is attached to Ordinance 2011-111 as Exhibit A, subject to amendment from
time-to-time as deemed necessary to maintain compliance the Act, and
incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   Any employee who violates an element of the prohibited acts section of
the Identity Protection Policy is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2011-111, passed 8-2-11)
**** CIVIL EMERGENCY ****
§ 33.40 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological
cause, including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm,
hazardous materials spill, or other water contamination requiring emergency
action to avert danger or damage, epidemic, pandemic, air contamination,
blight, extended periods of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation,
critical shortages of essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot, or hostile
military or paramilitary action.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the village limits except village officials, any other
governmental units and other persons officially designated for duty with
regards to a civil emergency.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.41 VILLAGE PRESIDENT TO ISSUE PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever a civil emergency exists, the Village President shall declare the
existence of the emergency by means of a written proclamation setting forth the
facts that constitute the emergency.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.42 NOTICE.
   Upon the issuance of a proclamation of a civil emergency by the Village
President, the village shall send out a press release regarding the
proclamation and shall post copies of the proclamation at the Village Hall,
police station and post office.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.43 DURATION.
   Any proclamation of a civil emergency by the Village President shall expire
no later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the village after
the declaration, unless already terminated by a proclamation of the Village
President indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Village
President shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of the first regular meeting of the village after the
declaration if the civil emergency still exists, except that the re-
proclamation may not exceed a total of two weeks without the consent of the
Village Trustees.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.44 AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Village President may, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following
orders.
   (A)   Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
village or to the village as a whole, as he or she deems advisable and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (E)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (F)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.45 CONSTRUCTION OF SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to impair any
provision contained in this code giving powers to the Police and Fire
Departments, but shall be construed, together with existing ordinances now in
effect, for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the village.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
§ 33.46 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter, or executive order
issued pursuant thereto, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 3-26-20)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Purchasing procedures and the sale of surplus property
   
34.002   Tax on personal property purchased outside Illinois
   
34.003   Service occupation tax
   
34.004   Retailer’s occupation tax
   
34.005   Reserved
   
34.006   Lowest responsible bidder
Hotel Tax
   
34.020   Title
   
34.021   Purpose
   
34.022   Definitions
   
34.023   Tax imposed
Investment Policy
   
34.035   Policy
   
34.036   Scope
   
34.037   Prudence
   
34.038   Objective
   
34.039   Delegation of authority
   
34.040   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
34.041   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
34.042   Authorized and suitable investments
   
34.043   Collateralization
   
34.044   Safekeeping and custody
   
34.045   Diversification
   
34.046   Maximum maturities
   
34.047   Internal control
   
34.048   Performance standards
   
34.049   Reporting
   
34.050   Marking to market
   
34.051   Investment policy adoption
Locally Imposed and Administered Taxes
   
34.065   Title
   
34.066   Scope
   
34.067   Definitions
   
34.068   Notices
   
34.069   Late payment
   
34.070   Payment
   
34.071   Certain credits and refunds
   
34.072   Audit procedure
   
34.073   Appeal
   
34.074   Hearing
   
34.075   Interest and penalties
   
34.076   Abatement
   
34.077   Installment contracts
   
34.078   Statute of limitations
   
34.079   Voluntary disclosure
   
34.080   Publication of tax ordinances
   
34.081   Review of liens
   
34.082   Application
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.001 PURCHASING PROCEDURES AND THE SALE OF SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purchasing objectives.
      (1)   The objectives of the purchasing procedures are as follows:
         (a)   To enable the village to purchase material and services of
sufficient quality at the most economical price.
         (b)   To allow the village to purchase material and services in an
open, forthright, and ethical manner which complies with all local, state, and
federal laws.
         (c)   To enable the village to follow a purchasing procedure which
promotes availability of material and services when needed, without creating
excess inventory.
         (d)   To provide adequate controls and oversight over village
expenditures in compliance with local government accounting practices and
principles.
      (2)   Note: The policies and procedures set forth in this section are
meant to set forth the purchasing procedures of the village, however they may
not govern every purchasing situation which may arise, and when purchases of an
emergency nature are necessary or situations arise where applying the
purchasing procedures would be unreasonably impractical, the village should
strive to maintain the objectives outlined above but strict conformance shall
not be required. Further, in situations where there is a single/sole source
vendor for any material, equipment, supplies or services, the bidding and quote
procedures set forth in this §
34.001 shall not be applicable.
      (3)   To be considered to be a "single/sole source vendor" shall not mean
that there is absolutely one vendor in existence that provides the particular
material, equipment, supplies or services. The Village Administrator, or their
designee, in determining whether a vendor shall be considered to be single/sole
source, will factor in but not be limited to, 1) geographic location of
vendors; 2) whether the vendor has exclusive sales rights within our region; 3)
whether a vendor offers specialized programs for municipalities; 4) whether the
vendor sells products that are compatible with existing village equipment; 5)
whether the village has invested a significant amount in a particular brand or
make of equipment; and 6) whether the village has had a negative experience
with a vendor shall be considered and may qualify a particular vendor to be
considered a single/sole source vendor.
   (B)   Purchasing procedure. The following sets forth the village purchasing
procedures, which shall apply to all non-emergency purchases of material,
equipment, supplies and services, except as otherwise provided herein.
      (1)   Purchasing categories.
         (a)   Non-emergency purchases made by the village may be grouped under
the following categories:
            1.   Formal purchases over $25,000 (formal bid procedures).
            2.   Secondary purchases from $8,000 through $25,000.
            3.   Informal purchases $2,000 through $7,999.
            4.   Open market purchases under $2,000.
         (b)   Organizational approval. All of these categories require a
different level of organizational approval.
            1.   Purchases in excess of $25,000 are made through formal public
bid procedures. Bid documents are brought before the mayor for written
approval. Final bid approval is made by the Village Board.
            2.   Purchases from $8,000 through $25,000 are made through written
competitive quote procedures and must have written approval of the Board.
            3.   Purchases of $2,000 through $7,999 are made through informal
competitive quote procedures and have the written approval of the department
head and second authorizing signature after approval by the Village
Administrator, or their designee.
            4.   Purchases up through $1,999 require only the written approval
of the department head and shall not require the competitive quotation
procedures. The use of competitive quote procedures is encouraged whenever
possible. The department head will periodically (no less than quarterly) check
as to prices being quoted by several competing suppliers for services and
supplies.
         (c)   Purchases over $25,000 (formal public bid procedures). Purchases
of materials, equipment, and services in excess of $25,000 must be made through
formal public bid procedures and must have the approval of the Village Board
prior to award. Purchases of $25,000 or less shall be included under formal
public bid procedures at the discretion of the Village Board. The Village
Administrator, or their designee, may waive the public bid requirement when
procuring certain professional services as outlined in state statute. In these
situations, the Village Administrator, or their designee, may require that a
request for proposals be utilized. The purchasing procedures of this division
(B)(1)(c) may be waived by two-thirds vote of the Village Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this bid process is not required for state bid
items or other approved cooperative purchasing agencies, but approval by a
majority of the Board is nonetheless required.
            1.   Procedure.
               A.   Department head.
                  (I)   Reviews purchase request and evaluates need for service
or item based upon departmental objectives.
                  (II)   Checks departmental budget to verify that funds are
appropriated and available.
                  (III)   Prepares bid requisition form which includes the
following information:
                     a.   Explanation of need.
                     b.   Bid specifications and bid documents and other
necessary instructions.
                     c.   Cost estimates.
                     d.   Amount budgeted.
                     e.   Department head's signature.
                     f.   Board vote approving bid process.
                  (IV)   Completed bid requisition forms and bid documents are
forwarded to the Village Administrator, or their designee, for evaluation and
written approval.
               B.   Village Administrator. The Village Administrator, or their
designee, shall evaluate the purchase requisition forms and bid documents and
shall either approve or deny the purchase requisition in writing and advise the
Village Board of their decision. If the Village Administrator, or their
designee, denies the purchase requisition, the Village Board may overturn the
denial by a majority vote of the Village Board. The Village President may veto
the Board's approval of the purchase requisition. The Board may overrule the
veto by a two-thirds vote, after which the Village President and Administrator
must approve the requisition for bid.
               C.   Return of bid requisition form to department head.
                  (I)   Bid requisition forms and bid documents which have been
approved by the Village Administrator (or Board in the event of an overrule)
are returned to the department head.
                  (II)   Notice of call for bids shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation throughout the village by at least one
insertion which shall be at least ten days and no more than 30 days prior to
the time designated for opening bids. The notice shall include a general
description of the article or service desired; shall state the time, date and
place of bid opening; and shall designate where bidding documents may be found.
                  (III)   Formal bids are opened and read publicly at the
Village Hall on the date specified and immediately following the time shown in
the notice of call for bids. Bids are read aloud and recorded on bid tabulation
form. A copy of the bid tab form is available to all bidders after the bid
opening.
                  (IV)   Bids are tabulated and analyzed by the department
head, Village Administrator, or their designee, and the appropriate committee.
The committee makes the recommendation to the Board and the recommendation is
usually based upon an award to the lowest responsible bidder, as that term is
defined in §
34.006, meeting specifications. Criteria for awarding bids shall be made in the
bid specifications and are subject to modification depending on the product or
services being acquired. The committee chairman then places the bid results and
award recommendation on the Village Board agenda. The official contract award
is made at regular Village Board meetings.
               D.   Clerk/Collector.
                  (I)   Following the Village Board approval, the Collector
shall issue an official purchase order under the procedures described in this
section.
                  (II)   It is recognized that certain variances in language
and form will be required in bidding for certain items. The decision to provide
variance in form and language shall be at the discretion of the Village
Administrator, or their designee, with advice from the Village Attorney.
         (d)   Secondary purchases from $8,000 through $25,000. Purchases of
materials, equipment, or services from and including $8,000 through $25,000 are
made following the purchasing procedures outlined below. Department heads are
responsible for obtaining and documenting written competitive price quotations
for all such purchases. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Village Board, by
majority vote, shall have the discretion to require that formal public bid
procedures be followed for purchases from $8,000 through $25,000 rather than
obtaining competitive price quotes.
            1.   Procedure.
               A.   Department head.
                  (I)   Reviews purchase request and evaluates need for item or
service based on departmental objectives.
                  (II)   Checks departmental budget report to verify that funds
are appropriated and available. The ultimate responsibility for department
expenditure is that of the department head.
                  (III)   Obtains two or more written price quotes outlining
all items/services to be provided. The obtaining of price quotes is not
required for state bids.
                  (IV)   Prepares the purchase requisition form which includes
the following information:
                     a   Department.
                     b.   Appropriate line item.
                     c.   Date goods/services are to be delivered.
                     d.   Date issued.
                     e.   Summary of quotations.
                     f.   Vendor's name, mailing address, contact person.
                     g.   Description (model, quantity).
                     h.   Unit price/total amount.
                     i.   Signature. (All purchase requisitions must be signed
by two of the following people: the department head, the Village Administrator,
or their designee, or the Village Trustee who is committee chair of the
appropriate committee. Purchase requisitions not signed as indicated above will
be returned to the department.)
                     j.   Price quotes must accompany purchase requisitions.
               B.   Clerk/Collector.
                  (I)   The complete purchase requisition forms are forwarded
to the Village Clerk who places them on the agenda for Board approval.
                  (II)   After Board approval, the written purchase requisition
form is reviewed for accuracy and completeness by the Village Collector. Based
on the completeness of the purchase requisition form and the correspondence of
request with budget appropriation, the Village Collector has the responsibility
of authorizing the generation of the purchase order for the purchase of goods/
services.
                  (III)   Village Collector prepares formal purchase order.
                  (IV)   Distributes the purchase order and two copies of the
purchase order as follows:
                     a.   Original: to be retained by the Collector and placed
in an "open purchase order" file (with the purchase requisition form) until
invoice is received. A report of all purchase orders issued shall be provided
to the Village President and the Board on a monthly basis.
                     b.   First copy: to vendor.
                     c.   Second copy: to the original department head.
               C.   Purchase order to department head.
                  (I)   The department head inspects items/services to ensure
that they conform to the specifications and quantities set forth in the
purchase order, and that they are received in satisfactory condition.
                  (II)   The department head receives vendor's invoice. Invoice
is coded and submitted to Village Collector for payment on the next regular
bill cycle.
               D.   Invoice to Collector. Village Collector matches coded
invoice to original purchase order and purchase requisition form from open
purchase order file and processes for payment. No bills will be paid without a
purchase order and signed purchase requisition forms except regular cyclical
bills.
         (e)   Informal purchases from $2,000 through $7,999. Informal
purchases of materials, equipment, or services from and including $2,000
through $7,999 are made following the purchasing procedures outlined below.
Department heads are responsible for obtaining and documenting competitive
price quotations for purchases from $2,000 to $7,999.
            1.   Procedure.
               A.   Department head.
                  (I)   Reviews purchase request and evaluates need for item or
service based upon departmental objectives. Obtains two or more oral or written
price quotations outlining all items/services to be provided. The obtaining of
price quotes is not required for state bids or other cooperative purchasing
agencies.
                  (II)   Checks departmental budget report to verify that funds
are appropriated and available. The line item for the budget code being used
must contain sufficient funds as of the prior month's Treasurer's report to
cover the cost of the item(s). No employee or elected official shall construe
this to mean that the division of an item's purchase price into installment
payments that fall into this range is allowed.
                  (III)   Submit quotes to Village Administrator, or their
designee, for review and approval.
                  (IV)   Request purchase order number from Village Collector
and prepare formal purchase order which includes the following information:
                     a.   Department.
                     b.   Budget code.
                     c.   Vendor's name, mailing address, contact person.
                     d.   Description (model, quantity).
                     e.   Unit price/total amount.
                     f.   Signature of department head.
                  (V)   The purchase order is signed by the Village
Administrator, or their designee, who distributes the purchase order and two
copies of the purchase order as follows:
                     a.   Original: to be given to the Collector to be placed
in an "open purchase order" file until the invoice is received. A report of all
purchase orders issued shall be provided to the Village President and the Board
on a monthly basis.
                     b.   First copy: to vendor.
                     c.   Second copy: to the original department head.
                  (VI)   Inspects items/service once received to ensure that
they conform to the specification and quantities set forth in the purchase
order and that they are received in the appropriate condition.
                  (VII)   Receives vendor's invoices. Invoice is coded and
submitted to Village Collector for payment on the next regular bill cycle.
               B.   Collector. Matches coded invoice to original purchase order
from "open purchase order" file and processes for payment. No bills will be
paid without a signed purchase order except for regular cyclical bills.
2026 S-17
         (f)   Purchases under $2,000. A department head may authorize
purchases in these amounts without the requirement of other approval. No
employee shall construe this to mean that the division of an item's purchase
price into installment payments which fall into this range (under $2,000) is
allowed. Any item whose price in whole or part exceeds this range must follow
procedure for the applicable price range. A purchase order is not necessary for
this purchase unless the department needs a written check approved prior to the
next board meeting date. The purchase must then be approved by the department
head and the Village Administrator, or their designee, and submitted to the
Village Collector for payment.
         (g)   Petty cash. The Village Collector and Police Department shall
maintain a petty cash fund in an amount to be determined by the Board. This
fund is to be used for small, emergency purchases, which are not part of
normally planned expenses. Any requests for replenishment must include all
original receipts totaling the amount requested. The request and receipts are
to be turned into the Village Collector. The Collector is instructed not to
process a petty cash replenishment for an amount greater than that for which
there are receipts to support it unless directed to do so by the Village Board.
         (h)   Blanket purchase orders for purchases under $10,000. Purchases
of materials, equipment, or services under $10,000 may be made from those few
merchants from whom many repetitive purchases are made as supplies or services
are required. Rather than issue a purchase order for each purchase, one
purchase order may be issued for the fiscal year to cover all purchases during
that period. Blanket purchase orders shall be reviewed by the appropriate
standing committee and approved by the Village Board annually.
            1.   Procedure.
               A.   Collector.
                  (I)   Identifies the need to have a blanket purchase order
through examination of past purchase records.
                  (II)   Notifies department heads of purchases which may be
made by blanket purchase orders.
               B.   Department head.
                  (I)   Checks departmental budget report to verify that funds
are appropriated and available for necessary purchases. The ultimate
responsibility for department expenditure is that of the department head.
                  (II)   Obtains two or more written price quotes outlining all
items/services to be provided. The requirement for price quote is not required
for state bid items or other approved competitive purchasing agencies.
                  (III)   Prepares purchase requisition form which includes the
following information:
                     a.   Department.
                     b.   Appropriate line item(s).
                     c.   Duration of blanket purchase order.
                     d.   Date issued.
                     e.   Summary of quotations.
                     f.   Vendor's name, mailing address, contact person.
                     g.   Signature. (All purchases must be signed by the
department head. Unsigned purchase requisitions, or those signed by someone
other than the department head, will be returned to the department.)
                     h.   Price quotes must accompany the purchase requisition.
               C.   Purchase requisition form to Collector.
                  (I)   The completed purchase requisition forms are forwarded
to the Village Collector and Village Administrator, or their designee, for
evaluation.
                  (II)   Reviews written purchase requisition forms for
accuracy and completeness. Based upon the completeness of the purchase
requisition and the correspondence of the request with budget appropriation,
the Village Collector has the responsibility of authorizing the generation of
the purchase order for the purchase of goods/services.
                  (III)   Prepares formal purchase order for review by
appropriate committee and approval by Village Board.
                  (IV)   Upon approval by the Village Board, distributes the
purchase order and two copies as follows:
                     a.   Original: to be retained by the Collector and placed
in a "blanket purchase order" file until closed.
                     b.   First copy: to vendor.
                     c.   Second copy: to department head.
               D.   Return of purchase order to department head.
                  (I)   Determines those employees in each department who will
be authorized to make purchases under the blanket purchase order.
                  (II)   Informs authorized employees of the types of items
covered by blanket purchase orders, vendor name, purchase order number and
expiration date. Each authorized employee should obtain approval from the
department head before making a purchase under the blanket purchase order.
                  (III)   Places orders under the blanket purchase order and
supervises placement of orders by subordinate.
                  (IV)   The department head inspects items/services to ensure
that they conform to the specifications and quantities set forth in the
purchase order and they are received in satisfactory condition.
                  (V)   Receives invoice from vendor. Compares deliveries being
billed to delivery tickets received from authorized employees and resolve any
discrepancies. Code and submit invoice to Village Collector for payment on the
next regular bill cycle.
               E.   Closing of blanket purchase orders by Collector. Close the
blanket purchase orders at the request of the department head by writing
"Complete" on the copy maintained in the "blanket purchase order" file and
issue a notice to the vendor that the purchase order is closed. Inform
department head of the new purchase order number when necessary.
   (C)   Equal Opportunity/Non-Discrimination Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the village that all potential bidders shall
have an opportunity to submit bids and to compete on an equal basis for village
business.
      (2)   All purchases and contracts to which the village is party shall
contain a non-discrimination in employment clause which provides:
"The vendor agrees that in performing under this purchase order with the
contracting municipality, he/she shall not discriminate against any worker,
employee or applicants, or any member of the public because of race, creed,
color, national origin, or sex. The vendor further agrees that this clause will
be incorporated in all contracts entered into with suppliers of materials or
services who may perform any such labor or services in connection with this
contract."
   (D)   Prevailing rate of wages. To the extent required by law, it is the
policy of the village that the prevailing rate of wages as found by the
village, the Department of Labor, or determined by the court on review shall be
paid to all laborers, workers and mechanics performing work for the village.
   (E)   Joint purchasing. It is the policy of the village to encourage
purchasing under intergovernmental cooperative purchasing agreements with other
local governments, other cooperative purchasing authorities, and/or state or
federal agencies when it serves the best interest of the village. Joint
purchasing is not subject to the procurement provisions of these purchasing
procedures.
   (F)   Sale of surplus personal property procedure.
      (1)   The objective these procedures are to provide a method for which
the village may sell surplus personal property or supplies that have become
obsolete or unusable.
      (2)   The Village Board may, by simply majority vote, determine that any
personal property is no longer necessary or useful, or in the best interest of
the village to retain and authorize the sale of such personal property by
ordinance.
      (3)   Such personal property may be sold in accordance with one of the
following procedures:
         (a)   With or without advertising the sale, the Village Board may
designate a manner in which to sell the personal property.
         (b)   The Village Board may authorize any municipal officer to convert
the personal property into another form that is useful to the village.
         (c)   The Village Board may authorize any municipal officer to convey
or turn in any specified personal property as a partial payment on the purchase
of any similar article. In the event the personal property is used as part of
the purchase price on a new article, the village must have received competitive
bids for the purchase of the article, as prescribed by ordinance, and all
bidders must have received notice that the personal property is part of the
purchase price to be paid by the village.
(Ord. 2016-8, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. 2021-9, passed 8-17-21; Am. Ord. 2022-
25, passed 11-1-22; Am. Ord. 2026-8, passed 3-3-26)
§ 34.002 TAX ON PERSONAL PROPERTY PURCHASED OUTSIDE ILLINOIS.
   (A)   A tax is imposed in accordance with the provisions of Illinois
Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6, as amended, upon the privilege of using in
the village any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with any
agency of Illinois Government. The tax shall be at the rate of 1% of the
selling price of such tangible personal property with selling price to have the
meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act, 35 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as amended, and the
tax shall be collected from persons whose Illinois address for titling or
registration purposes is given as being within the municipality of Rockton.
   (B)   The tax shall be collected by the Illinois Department of Revenue for
the village and the tax must be paid or an exemption determination obtained
from the Department of Revenue before the title or certificate of registration
for the personal property may be issued. The Department of Revenue shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of such Act and this
section.
(Ord. 1988-21, passed 11-7-88)
§ 34.003 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in this village in the
business of making sales of service, of the selling price of all tangible
personal property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to sale of
service. The rate of this tax shall be the same rate identified in §
34.004 of the Village Code. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with
and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-1.4 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4).
   (B)   Every service person required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this village shall file all reports as
required by 35 ILCS 115/9 to the State Department of Revenue.
(Am. Ord. 2025-7, passed 5-6-25)
§ 34.004 RETAILER’S OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in this village at the rate of 1% of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of the business (other than
items of tangible personal property titled and registered with an agency of the
state's government) while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file
all reports as required by 35 ILCS 120/3 to the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 1969-7, passed 9-15-69; Am. Ord. 1979-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2025-7,
passed 5-6-25)
§ 34.005 RESERVED.
§ 34.006 LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER for purposes of this chapter shall mean a
bidder who meets:
      (1)   All of the job specifications provided by the village;
      (2)   The following applicable criteria set forth below; and
      (3)   Has submitted evidence of compliance with each of the following, as
applicable, to the village:
         (a)   All applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in Illinois;
         (b)   Evidence of compliance with the following:
            1.   Federal Employer Tax Identification Number or Social Security
Number (for individuals); and
            2.   Provision of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the
United States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246 as amended by
Executive Order No. 11375 (known as the Equal Opportunity Employer provisions).
         (c)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverage:
general liability, workers' compensation, completed operations and performance,
automobile, hazardous occupation, product liability, in the amounts set forth
by the village in each bid package, or where such amounts are not specified by
the village, in amounts so requested by the village's risk management provider.
         (d)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage
Act, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and retirement for
those trades covered in the act, and certifying receipt and compliance with the
village's prevailing wage ordinance then in effect.
         (e)   The bidder and all bidder's sub-contractors must participate in
active apprenticeship and training programs approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor's Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for
each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded contract.
         (f)   All contractors and sub-contractors are required to turn in
certified payrolls as specified in Illinois Public Act 94-0515, and follow all
provisions of the Employee Classification Act, 820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.
         (g)   Submit proof of any professional trade license required by law
for any trade or specialty area in which a bidder is seeking a contract award
and disclose any suspension or revocation within the previous five years of any
professional trade license held by the company, or of any director, officer, or
manager employed by the bidder.
         (h)   Provide information as to the substance abuse policy that
pertains to all of the bidder's employees working on the project.
   (B)   The village may also request evidence of and/or consider the following
factors when identifying responsible bidder for the purpose of awarding
contracts under this section:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract;
      (2)   The capacity of the bidder to perform the contract promptly and
efficiently, or within the time specific, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, and experience of the bidder:
         (a)   The quality of the bidder's past performance, including
performance of the previous contract, whether or not such performance was
within the village;
         (b)   The bidder's defaults under previous contracts, whether or not
such contract was with the village;
         (c)   The bidder's failure to pay or satisfactory settle bills due on
former contracts, whether or not such contract was with the village;
         (d)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract;
         (e)   The financial ability of the bidder to perform the contract;
         (f)   Any findings of non-responsibility by federal, state, or local
agencies;
         (g)   Any additional factors the village determines relevant for the
contract.
   (C)   Nothing herein adopted shall be construed to affect any suit of
proceeding now pending in any court of any rights accrued or liability incurred
or cause or causes of action accrued or existing under any prior resolution or
ordinance.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-22-13; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 3-14-16)
**** HOTEL TAX ****
§ 34.020 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Hotel
Operator's Occupation Tax Act of the Village of Rockton.”
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 5-20-85)
§ 34.021 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to generate revenue in order to promote
tourism, conventions, expositions, theatrical, sport or cultural activities.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 5-20-85)
§ 34.022 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Revenue.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of
any room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive days.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   RENTER. Any person who pays for the privilege of using or occupying a hotel
room for the period for which payment is made.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the Village of Rockton, Illinois.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 5-20-85)
§ 34.023 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is levied and imposed a tax upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel which is located
within the village, referred to as “persons subject to this tax” at a rate of
5% of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting for any
purpose for each 24 hour period or any portion thereof. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes and charges applicable to such
hotels, but such other taxes and charges shall not be construed to be a part of
the charge upon which this tax is levied.
   (B)   The ultimate incidents of and liability for payment of the tax levied
herein is to be borne by the person engaged in the business of renting, leasing
or letting the rooms. The operators and owners may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability for this tax by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge to the resident, which charge may be stated in combination,
as a single amount, with state tax imposed under the hotel operator’s
occupation tax, 35 ILCS 145/1. No tax is imposed based upon permanent residents
of any hotel.
   (C)   No person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms
in a hotel shall reimburse himself or herself for the imposition of this tax at
a rate higher than the tax imposed by this subchapter.
   (D)   Any person subject to this tax shall transmit to the Village Treasurer
on or before the last day of each calendar month a sum of money equal to the
taxes collected pursuant to this subchapter for the preceding calendar month
and simultaneously therewith shall transmit a report upon forms supplied by the
Treasurer indicating the gross receipts from the renting of hotel rooms to all
renters, including permanent residents as defined herein and such other
information as the Treasurer may reasonably require for the enforcement of this
subchapter.
   (E)   Any person engaged in the renting of hotel rooms shall keep complete
and accurate books and records, including a daily sheet showing the gross
receipts for the hotel rentals for the day reported.
   (F)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing this subchapter, the
Treasurer shall, after providing reasonable notice, have access during normal
business hours to the books and records of persons and businesses subject to
this subchapter.
   (G)   Any person who violates this subchapter, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200 nor more than $300 for the
first offense and not less than $300 nor more than $750 for the second and each
subsequent offense in any 180-day period. A separate and distinct offense shall
be regarded as having been committed each day upon which the person shall
continue any such violation.
   (H)   This tax shall not in any way constitute an indebtedness by the
village subject to any limitation imposed by statute or otherwise.
   (I)   Nothing herein adopted shall be construed to affect any suit now
pending in any court or any rights accrued or liability incurred or any cause
or causes of action accrued or existing under any prior resolution or
ordinance. Nor shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this subchapter.
   (J)   If any provision of this subchapter or the application thereof is held
to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such ruling shall not affect any other provision of this
subchapter not specifically included in such a ruling or which can be given
effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or application; and to
this end, the provisions of this subchapter are declared severable.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 5-20-85; Am. Ord. 1991- , passed 11-4-91)
**** INVESTMENT POLICY ****
§ 34.035 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the village and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.036 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all funds governed by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.037 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgement and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the prudent person standard and shall be applied in the context of managing an
overall portfolio.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.038 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality - conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety - preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity - maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements;
      (4)   Yield - attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the entity's needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.039 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
delegated to the Village Treasurer who, under the delegation of the Board of
Trustees, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the
investment program.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.040 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program or that could impair their ability to make
impartial decisions.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.041 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   The Village Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be
maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.042 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in
Illinois statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.043 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed
by a written agreement and held at an independent third party institution in
the name of the village.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.044 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements
entered into by the village, shall be conducted on a delivery-versus-payment
(DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third party custodian
designated by the Village Treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a
written custodial agreement.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.045 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.046 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, the village shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than one year from the date of purchase.
   (B)   Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding one year if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.047 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining
an internal control structure designed to insure that the assets of the entity
are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping;
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.048 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity
and credit quality as the portfolio. (Entity will have to insert their
benchmark, for example, 90-day T-bill, Illinois Funds and the like.)
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.049 REPORTING.
   The Village Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly.
The report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and be available on
request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.050 MARKING TO MARKET.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the
Board of Trustees quarterly.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
§ 34.051 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The policy
shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Village Treasurer and any
modifications made thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1999-23, passed 12-6-99)
**** LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAXES ****
§ 34.065 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.066 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et
seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village of Rockton and Board of Trustees.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the Act.
   NOTICE. Such audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.068 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
person concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.069 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.070 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.071 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
   (D)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in part,
a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or credit
shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365 days
and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of
mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.072 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
period provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.073 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of tax determination and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.074 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
34.073, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   Continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.075 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Payment due. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is
due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The village provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax to be 9% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (C)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.076 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.077 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.078 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for the
applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.079 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.080 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.081 REVIEW OF LIENS.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
§ 34.082 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 2000-33, passed 12-18-00)
CHAPTER 35: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
Section
Code Hearing Division
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Code Hearing Division established
   
35.03   Hearing procedures not exclusive
   
35.04   Instituting code hearing proceedings
   
35.05   Subpoenas; default
   
35.06   Continuances; representation at code hearings
   
35.07   Hearings; evidence
   
35.08   Evictions; rights of occupants
   
35.09   Defenses to building code violations
   
35.10   Findings, decision and order
   
35.11   Review under administrative law
   
35.12   Judgment on findings, decision and order
   
35.13   Sanctions applicable to owner; property
   
35.14   Administrative fee
   
35.15   Administrative Hearing Officer
**** CODE HEARING DIVISION ****
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the
following terms are defined below:
   ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER. A village employee, or an officer or agent
of the village, other than a Code Inspector or law enforcement officer, whose
duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the Code Inspector, law
enforcement officer, the property owner, and all interested parties relative to
the existence of a code violation;
      (3)   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      (4)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing,
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (5)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists and shall include the fine, penalty, or action
with which the defendant must comply;
      (6)   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation. In no
event shall the penalty include incarceration or a fine in excess of $50,000
(or at the option of the municipality, amount not to exceed the maximum amount
established by the mandatory arbitration system as prescribed by the Rules of
the Illinois Supreme Court from time to time for the judicial circuit of
Winnebago County); and
      (7)   Enter orders prohibiting further code violations or compelling the
remediation of existing code violations within a specified time and authorizing
the municipality to take all necessary steps to remediate code violations.
   CODE.
      (1)   Any village ordinance, law, housing, building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures; or
      (2)   Any village ordinance that requires, after notice, the cutting of
weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable motor
vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances from private property in the village;
or
      (3)   Any village ordinance, law or code that governs or regulates the
standing, parking or conditions of vehicles; or
      (4)   Any village ordinance, law or code that governs or regulates the
imposition of administrative fees in relation to the towing, impounding and
storage of vehicles involved in certain offenses committed within the Village;
or
      (5)   Any other village ordinance or law that expressly allows or
provides for adjudication or hearing before an Administrative Hearing Officer.
   CODE INSPECTOR. A village employee, or agent of the village, whose duties
include the inspection or examination of structures or property in the village
to determine if code violations exist.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of a property, with or without
a structure appurtenant thereto.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 2025-30, passed 12-2-25)
§ 35.02 CODE HEARING DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   The village hereby adopts 65 ILCS 5/11-31.1 et seq.; 65 ILCS 5/2.1 et seq.;
and all amendments and modifications thereto, and establishes a Code Hearing
Division, in conjunction with the Village Attorney acting as its legal
department. The function of the Code Hearing Division is to expedite the
prosecution and correction of code violations in the manner set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 2025-30, passed 12-2-25)
§ 35.03 HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This chapter does not preclude the village from using other methods to
enforce the provisions of its code, or to enter into intergovernmental
agreements, as authorized under the Illinois Municipal Code, for the
enforcement of such provisions of its code by other municipal bodies or
agencies.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.04 INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   When a Code Inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a
property or structure, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple-copy,
violation notice and report form, indicating the name and address of the
property owner, the type and nature of the violation, the date and time the
violation was observed, the names of witnesses to the violation, and the
address of the structure or property where the violation was observed.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded by the Code Inspector to
the Code Hearing Division, where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies
of the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for that
purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30, nor more than
40 days after the violation is reported by the Code Inspector.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Division and shall be part of the record of hearing; one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the Code Inspector so that he or
she may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing
on the date indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served by first
class mail on the property owner, along with a summons commanding the property
owner to appear at the hearing. If the name of the property owner cannot be
ascertained, or if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be
made on the owner in person, or by posting or nailing a copy of the violation
report form on the front door of the structure where the violation is found, or
otherwise conspicuously posting notice on the property, not be less than 20
days before the hearing is scheduled.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.05 SUBPOENAS; DEFAULT.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the Administrative Hearing Officer
assigned to hear the case may, at the request of the Code Inspector, or the
attorney for the village, or the property owner or his or her attorney, issue
subpoenas commanding witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. If,
on the date set for the hearing, the property owner or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the Administrative Hearing Officer may find the property owner
in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence to the
existence of a code violation.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.06 CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the Administrative Hearing Officer in
proceedings under this chapter, except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the property owner. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized
by a Administrative Hearing Officer under this chapter shall not exceed 25
days. The case for the village may be presented by the Code Inspector, by any
other village employee, or by an attorney designated by the village. However,
in no event shall the case for the village be presented by an employee of the
Code Hearing Division. The case for the property owner may be presented by the
property owner, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.07 HEARINGS; EVIDENCE.
   At the hearing, an Administrative Hearing Officer shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relative to the existence or
nonexistence of a code violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.08 EVICTIONS; RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS.
   No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer
or other similar proceedings shall be instituted or threatened against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because the occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code violation hearing.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.09 DEFENSES TO BUILDING CODE VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a defense to a building code violation being adjudicated under
the authority of 65 ILCS 5/31.1-1 et seq. of the Illinois Municipal Code, if
the property owner, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative
proves to the Administrative Hearing Officer's satisfaction that:
   (A)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed;
   (B)   The code violation has been caused by the current occupant, and that,
in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the property free of
such violations, the current occupant continues to cause the violation;
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the property has refused entry to the
owner, or his or her agent, to all or a part of the property for the purpose of
correcting the code violation.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.10 FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall
make a determination, on the basis of evidence presented at the hearing,
whether or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision
and order shall include the Administrative Hearing Officer’s findings of facts,
a decision whether or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of
fact, and an order ordering the owner to correct the violation, or dismissing
the case in the event a violation is not proved. If a code violation is proved,
the order may also impose the sanctions that are provided in the code for the
violation proved. A copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on
the property owner within five days after they are issued. Service shall be in
the same manner as the report form and summons are served pursuant to §
35.04(C) above. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine
money shall be in the same manner as set forth in the code.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.11 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE LAW.
   The findings, decision and order of the Administrative Hearing Officer shall
be subject to review in the Circuit Court of the Winnebago County, and the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., and all
amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto
are adopted and shall apply to and covering every action for the judicial
review of the final findings, decision and order of an Administrative Hearing
Officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.12 JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., shall be a debt due and owing the village, and
as such may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
2026 S-17
   (B)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review under the
Administrative Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., may be sought for a final
determination of the code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the findings, decision, and order of the Hearing Officer may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction. The village may consolidate multiple findings, decisions and
orders against a person. The findings, decision and order of the Administrative
Hearing Officer shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the same
manner as judgments for the recovery of money for the amount indicated in the
findings, decision and order plus costs. The Administrative Hearing Officer may
also issue such other orders and injunctions as are requested by the village to
enforce orders of the Administrative Hearing Officer and to correct a
violation.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15; Am. Ord. 2025-30, passed 12-2-25)
§ 35.13 SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO OWNER; PROPERTY.
   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the
village as the result of a finding of a code violation under this chapter shall
attach to the property, as well as to the owner of the property, so that a
finding of a code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or
transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner
of the property takes subject to the findings, decision and order of an
Administrative Hearing Officer under this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.14 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In addition to any fines or other costs of the proceeding that may be
imposed by the Administrative Hearing Officer, upon a finding of a violation of
the village’s code of ordinances, the Administrative Hearing Officer may order
the imposition of an administrative fee in the amount of $200, which shall be
credited towards the costs of the proceedings.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
§ 35.15 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Creation of position.  The position of Administrative Hearing Officer
is hereby created to hear and adjudicate allegations of code violations brought
by the village, and to impose fines, costs and penalties for such violations as
are proven. The Administrative Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the
Village President. The Village President is hereby authorized and empowered to
appoint, with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, an
individual or firm to provide the services of Administrative Hearing Officer as
an independent contractor on a part-time basis, with such individual or firm to
serve at the pleasure of the Village President. The position of Administrative
Hearing Officer shall not be a civil service position, and the Village
President shall have the authority to remove, replace or reappoint such
individual or firm from time to time as he or she, at his or her sole
discretion, may choose, with any new appointment subject to the advice and
consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Qualifications of Hearing Officer. Every Hearing Officer must be an
attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for at least three
years. Prior to conducting any proceedings, Hearing Officers shall successfully
complete a formal training program that includes the following:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the hearings that they
will conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will administer;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings;
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including rules on evidence
and issuing final orders.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 5-19-15)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER SERVICE
      
52.   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION AREA
      
53.   WATER SERVICE
      
54.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Charges and rates for the use and service of the residential trash fee
   
50.02   Depositing refuse
§ 50.01 CHARGES AND RATES FOR THE USE AND SERVICE OF THE RESIDENTIAL TRASH FEE.
   (A)   All residential units where the village provides weekly residential
trash pickup shall be charged to pay a portion of the costs of service.
   (B)   The rates and charges for residential trash service, as herein
specified, shall be used in computing the bill. The bill for services shall be
billed on a quarterly basis and shall be payable on or before the expiration
date of the bill. The current bill for services may be combined with the
current bill for water and sewer services for the same premises. All provisions
of the ordinance with reference to the payment and collection of water and
sewer bills shall be applicable to this section, to the extent that it doesn’t
conflict with this section.
   (C)   The charge for services shall be based upon the number of units in
each single-family dwelling, duplex, condominium of three units or less and all
apartment complexes of three units or less that the village has provided
services for, whether or not such unit receives the services or decides to hire
a private contractor to provide this service.
   (D)   The charge for each unit shall be in accordance with the rates set
forth in the residential waste disposal agreement between the village and its
contracted residential waste hauler in effect at any given time, plus an
additional $3 per month.
   (E)   It is the duty of the Village Water Clerk to render bills for
residential trash service and other charges in connection therewith and to
collect all monies due therefor.
   (F)   All revenues and monies derived from this service shall be held by the
Water Clerk and shall be deposited not more than ten days after receipt of the
same or at more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
Village Board.
   (G)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all revenues from the residential
trash service and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of each
system of the village and shall administer the fund in every respect as in
manner and form provided by law.
   (H)   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts
which he or she may be required to keep and such records and accounts shall
show complete and correct entries of all transactions relating to the
residential trash service.
   (I)   A copy of the ordinance set forth in this section, properly certified
by the Village Clerk, shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and
shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the responsibility of
compliance with the terms of this section, and it shall be the duty of the
Village Clerk and such other officers of the village to take all action
necessary or required by the laws of the state to prosecute and enforce all
such matters as may be set forth under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1990-10, passed 8-6-90; Am. Ord. 2011-18, passed 11-7-11; Am. Ord. 2018-
4, passed 1-16-18; Am. Ord. 2022-7, passed 6-7-22)
§ 50.02 DEPOSITING REFUSE.
   No person shall deposit or place any refuse or garbage in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, publicly-owned property or public place except as
provided in this code.
(Ord. 1983-8, passed 8-15-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Use of sewer system required
   
51.003   Rules and regulations by President and Board of Trustees
   
51.004   Owner responsible
   
51.005   Access for inspection
   
51.006   Records and report
   
51.007   Duty of Department
   
51.008   Separation of funds
   
51.009   Duty of Village Treasurer
   
51.010   Records and accounts
   
51.011   Meters for discharge to sanitary sewers
   
51.012   Measure restriction of deductions
   
51.013   Installation and repairs of meters
   
51.014   Sewer service
Connections
   
51.025   Permit required for connection to sewer system
   
51.026   Performance bond
   
51.027   Insurance
   
51.028   Application
   
51.029   Village supervision
   
51.030   Ordinary connections
   
51.031   Extraordinary conditions
   
51.032   Unforeseen circumstances
   
51.033   Replacement
   
51.034   Work order
   
51.035   Private excavations
   
51.036   Multiple connections
   
51.037   Existing installations
   
51.038   Repairs and cleaning
Regulations
   
51.050   Control of volume and type of discharge
   
51.051   Authority for control of wastewater discharges
   
51.052   Sampling and monitoring
   
51.053   Analyses
   
51.054   Consent to annexation
   
51.055   Excavations
   
51.056   Foul substances and obstructions
   
51.057   Sufficient water
   
51.058   Stormwater in sanitary sewer
   
51.059   Damaging sewers or drains
   
51.060   Private construction of mains
   
51.061   Oil/water separators
   
51.062   Certification of compliance with discharge standards
Fees and Charges; Billing
   
51.075   Costs of labor and materials
   
51.076   Fees and costs
   
51.077   Payment condition precedent
   
51.078   Rates established
   
51.079   Computation of water
   
51.080   Computation of bills
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.095   Enforcement
   
51.096   Authorized public contractors
   
51.097   Service calls
   
51.098   Special agreements
   
51.099   Delinquent payments
   
51.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quality of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the house sewer, beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CONTRIBUTOR. Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation or group responsible for the production of domestic, commercial or
industrial waste which is directly or indirectly discharged into the city's
sewer system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Sewer Department of the Village of Rockton.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
Pub. L. 92-500, and any amendments thereto (33 USC 1251 et seq.), as well as
guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to the Act.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in the physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HOUSE SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow of greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standard issue under § 307a of the Federal Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving the
waste to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries on that treatment works or upon the quality of effluent
from the treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES. The National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of the hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution at 25°C. It is used to indicate the concentration
of free acid and alkali.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, wastewater,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munition, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged
into water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from a source before introduction
into publicly- owned wastewater treatment works (POTW).
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½-inch in any dimension.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharging from the sanitary conveniences of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories
or institutions and free from storm water, surface water and industrial wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. All facilities and pipes whether located on private
or public property for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sanitary
sewage by discharging it into the sanitary sewers owned by the village and
treating it in the sanitary sewer treatment plants owned by the Sanitary
District.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER WORKS or SEWERAGE SYSTEM. All facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids.
   SEWERAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such ground surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SLUDGE. Any discharge of water or wastewater quantity of flow exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24
hour concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A pipe or conduit which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial
wastes; it may, however, carry cooling water and unpolluted water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in waste, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Includes but is not necessarily limited to aldrindieldrin,
benzidine, cadmium, cyanide, DDT edrin, mercury, polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCB's) and toxaphene. Pollutants included as TOXIC shall be those promulgated
as such by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION
CONTROL PLANT.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the stand point of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residence,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.002 USE OF SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, association, corporation or partnership having its
residence or place of business within the territorial limits of the village
shall be permitted to dispose of wastes or wastewater of such residence or
place of business located in the village otherwise than through the sewer mains
of the village wherever the sewer mains of the sewerage system of the village
are adjacent to its property subsequent to May 1, 1963, without the written
permission of the Village President and Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Any person, firm, association, corporation or partnership violating
this section shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $1,000, and each
day of violation shall be deemed as a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.003 RULES AND REGULATIONS BY PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The President and Board of Trustees are authorized to make such rules and
regulations consistent with this chapter for connections to the sewerage system
and for specifying the type and size of pipes and all other appurtenances and
extensions thereto and shall be authorized to amend the same from time to time
as may be deemed necessary. All sewage pipes and connections to the sewerage
system shall comply with the specifications and rules. Any person, persons,
firm or corporation or their representative not complying with these
specifications and rules for connection to the sewerage system shall be subject
to a penalty as hereafter provided.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.004 OWNER RESPONSIBLE.
   (A)   The owner of any premises connected with any sewer shall be considered
as authorizing and responsible for the construction and use of any sewer
connections upon such premises and subject to the penalties for any improper
construction or use of such connection.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the occupant of any premises from
responsibility for any improper construction or use of any sewer connection.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.005 ACCESS FOR INSPECTION.
   The Village Board, its authorized agents and other persons duly authorized
by the Village Board shall be entitled to access the premises of any
contributor for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing at any reasonable time to such extent as may be necessary to carry
out the spirit and intent of this chapter, and it shall be deemed a part of the
agreement on the part of the contributor as a condition to his or her
permission to connect with the village sewer system that such access be
granted.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.006 RECORDS AND REPORT.
   The Department shall keep a record of all permits granted for connections of
sewers or drains, in which it shall enter the names of all persons paying or
owing money for such permits, the amount received, the data received, a
description of the premises to be connected with such sewer and the location of
the connecting drain.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.007 DUTY OF DEPARTMENT.
   It is made the duty of the Village Water Clerk to render bills for sewerage
service and other charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due
therefor.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.008 SEPARATION OF FUNDS.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage system
shall be held by the Treasurer separate and apart from all other monies and
shall be deposited not more than ten days after receipt of the same, or at more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.009 DUTY OF VILLAGE TREASURER.
   The Village Treasurer shall remit to the Rockton Sanitary District, on a
quarterly basis, an amount equal to $3.85 per quarter for each house connected
to the Rockton Sanitary District. The calculation of the number of homes will
be based upon the number of homes actually connected at the end of each
preceding month. This sum shall be paid quarterly to the Rockton Sanitary
District. As of December 31, 1991, there are 1,105 homes connected to the
Rockton Sanitary District.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92)
§ 51.010 RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts separate
from all other records and accounts which he or she may be required to keep and
such records and accounts shall show complete and correct entries of all
transactions relating to the sewerage system.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.011 METERS FOR DISCHARGE TO SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Wherever the forgoing methods for the computation of water discharged
to the sanitary sewer may seem impractical, the sewer user may make application
to the Village Board for permission to meter water discharged only to the
sanitary sewer. If, upon investigation of the premises, the Village Board
approves the application, the necessary meter or meters shall be installed by
the sewer user so the readings of this meter or meters shall be taken as the
basis of the sewer charge, which the charge shall be calculated in accordance
with the rates provided.
   (B)   The Village Board shall designate the make and type of meter to be
installed by the sewer user and shall supervise the installation and test these
meters whenever deemed necessary by the Village Board. All necessary repairs to
such meters shall be made by the Public Works Department at the expense of the
sewer user.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.012 MEASURE RESTRICTION OF DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   All users of sewer service who have water supplies which are not
metered may have them metered by making written application to the Public Works
Department;
   (B)   Deductions for water which does not enter the sanitary sewer shall be
made upon written application to the Village Board and shall be subject to the
following regulations:
      (1)   No deductions for the users of the sewer who do not have a metered
water supply;
      (2)   The Department shall determine which used water shall be eligible
for discharge to the storm sewer system;
      (3)   No used water which contains suspended matter in any form (organic
or inorganic) or any dissolved substances shall be eligible for discharge to
the storm sewers or any watercourse without approval of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency;
      (4)   All users of sewer service shall, at their own expense, make a
division in the water supply piping and install, in a manner approved by the
Public Works Department, meters approved and designed to measure any water
discharged to a storm sewer or any other watercourse in order to have such
water deducted from the total metered water consumed;
      (5)   Water which does not enter any sewer or watercourse shall be
deducted from the total metered water consumed, only if such water which is not
entering the sewer or watercourse is metered. A division in the water supply
piping and meters approved design shall be installed at the expense of the
sewer user in a manner satisfactory to the Department;
      (6)   One hundred percent of the water measured by a deducting meter must
be kept out of the sanitary sewers if the quantity of such water is to be
deducted from the entire amount of water consumed.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.013 INSTALLATION AND REPAIRS OF METERS.
   The Department shall have supervision of the installation of private meters
used in computation of the amount of water to be deducted from the total
metered consumption of any sewer user and from time to time test the accuracy
of the meters. All necessary repairs to such meters shall be at the user’s
expense.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.014 SEWER SERVICE.
   No public easement shall be blocked by trees, plants, shrubs or any
structure, whether temporary or permanent. Any object, living or non-living,
which impedes ingress or egress of Department equipment or personnel for the
inspection, maintenance or repair of the sewer lines in the easement shall be
removed by the owner at the Department’s request. If the owner of any such
obstruction refuses to remove the tree, plant, shrub, or structure, it shall be
removed by the Department at the owner’s expense, and the owner will be subject
to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $750 after notification by the
Department. Each day of violation shall be deemed as a separate violation of
this section.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
**** CONNECTIONS ****
§ 51.025 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   No person, persons, partnership, firm or corporation shall make
any connection to the sewer mains of the sewerage system of the village except
upon the written application to the Village Water Clerk and the issuance of the
permit by the Village Water Clerk for the connection. The application shall
contain an agreement on the part of the applicant that all the rules,
regulations, conditions and provisions of any ordinance relating to the
sewerage system will be complied with. Each application shall state the name of
the applicant or the party applying for permission for connection and the
location with respect to where the service is to be installed. Each application
shall also state such additional information, such as pertaining to lot lines,
as may be needed for the proper guidance of the village in the issuing of the
permit.
      (2)   Any permit issued pursuant to application under this section shall
be valid for a period of six months from the date of issuance. If connection of
the sewer mains of the sewerage system of the village has not been completed
within that time period, the permit shall become invalid and a new permit must
be obtained and payment of any and all current applicable fees must be made
before such connection shall be permitted.
      (3)   A newly constructed sewer must be tested at the expense of the
constructor before being accepted as a part of the sanitary sewer system of the
village. The Village Board may choose to waive this requirement if another
means of test and/or inspection is deemed acceptable by the Public Works
Director.
   (B)   (1)   No connection shall be made with the sewerage system without a
signed permit of the Village Water Clerk or his or her designee, and any
connection made with the sewerage system without such signed permit or in any
manner different from the method described for such opening or connection shall
subject the person or persons making such connection to a penalty as hereafter
provided.
      (2)   No person who is not an authorized employee of the village shall
make any connection with, uncover, alter or disturb a sanitary sewer main or
open any manhole, intercepting chamber or any appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit so to do from the Village Water Clerk or from
such person as may be designated by the President and Board of Trustees of the
village.
      (3)   No part of an existing septic tank shall be connected with the
sewer mains, and no part of such septic tank shall be permitted to become a
part of a connection to the sewer main. Nothing, however, shall preclude the
laying of a solid pipe or solidly-joined connecting pipes through the area of
an existing septic tank site.
      (4)   Employees of the sewerage system shall have the right at reasonable
times to access premises served by the Rockton sewerage system. Any person
unreasonably refusing to permit employees of the sewerage system access to the
premises for right of inspection or repair or maintenance shall be subject to a
penalty as hereafter provided.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 1998-14, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2019-
18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.026 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   No permit for a sewer connection, house connection or a sewer extension
shall be issued by the village unless the owner or contractor applying therefor
shall have filed in the office of the Village Water Clerk a performance bond
with corporate surety acceptable to the village thereon in the sum of $1,000
for a sewer connection or house connection. The performance bond shall be
approved by the Village Water Clerk conditioned upon the applicant indemnifying
and saving harmless the village for any and all damage to underground mains of
the village and from any failure to restore any road, ditch, pavement or
portion thereof damaged during the construction of the sewer connection.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.027 INSURANCE.
   No permit for a sewer connection or sewer extension shall be issued by the
village unless the owner or contractor applying therefor shall first establish
to the satisfaction of the Village Water Clerk the presence of public liability
insurance in the amount of not less than $50,000 for injuries, including
accidental death to any one person and subject to the same limit for any person
in an amount of not less than $100,000 on account of one accident and property
damage insurance in an amount of not less than $50,000. The persons or entity
to be indemnified and saved harmless in the policy shall be the village and the
applicant for sewer connection or sewer extension. A certificate of the
insurance shall be filed with the Village Water Clerk.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.028 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to connect his or her property to the sanitary
systems, other than by means of a direct connection already installed and
intended for only the use of the property in question, shall make an
application to the Village Water Clerk or other designee.
   (B)   The application shall include a written approval of the Plumbing
Inspector and a detailed statement of the complete drainage work to be done
within the premises.
   (C)   The proposed system must meet the approval of the Public Works
Director before it shall issue a permit for the sewer connection.
   (D)   No change shall be made from such proposal unless a new application
and statement is filed with the Village Water Clerk and a permit is issued.
   (E)   The Public Works Director shall either give or refuse approval of such
project within three days from the filing of the application.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.029 VILLAGE SUPERVISION.
   The village, subsequent to issuance of a permit, shall supervise the opening
or cut of the street, the connection of the line to the main sewer line and the
closing of the street cut, including back filling and restoration of the street
surface. The supervision required hereunder shall be given by the Public Works
Director or such other agent of the village as designated by the Board of
Trustees. Application for such connection shall be made to the Village Water
Clerk and a fee of $150 shall be paid therefor.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 51.030 ORDINARY CONNECTIONS.
   The charges listed under this chapter shall apply only to regular
connections made with extra heavy 4-inch cast iron pipe or 4-, 6- or 8-inch PVC
(schedule 35 in 4-inch, schedule 40 in 6-inch or larger) installed at a right
angle to the street. Connection into the main sewer line shall be made
preferably at Y's already provided for that purpose and the lateral lines shall
be laid to the property line, terminating there at a depth of no greater than 8
feet. The aforesaid installation costs shall apply only when the soil is not
frozen.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.031 EXTRAORDINARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever existing circumstances or the property owner requires a
connection other than described above as ordinary, or if extra installation
costs arise due to frozen soil, the property owner shall be required to pay, in
the place of the charges listed, the actual cost of making the connection, plus
20% overhead.
   (B)   In such cases, the Village Board shall, when the application is filed,
require the property owner to make a deposit, based on an estimate by the
Department, sufficient to pay all such fees and charges. Upon final completion
the Village Board shall compute the actual total charge, and the property owner
shall then pay any shortage or receive refund of any excess deposit.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.032 UNFORESEEN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   If the circumstances or conditions not foreseen at the filing of the
application occur or exist to cause the connection to vary from the type on
which the charge was based, the Public Works Department shall adjust the charge
to the proper type, if it can be classified as another type listed or otherwise
to compute the actual installation cost, add the 20% overhead and either refund
the excess paid or collect the unpaid portion.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.033 REPLACEMENT.
   The installation of the sewer connection to replace a former connection
shall be considered a new connection.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.034 WORK ORDER.
   As soon after issuance of a permit as circumstance permits, the connection
shall be installed.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.035 PRIVATE EXCAVATIONS.
   Private persons shall not dig trenches or make sewer connection in any
street, alley or public grounds.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.036 MULTIPLE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person having a sewer connection, or a permit for a sewer
connection, shall allow any other premises to connect with the public sewerage
system through his or her pipes or drains, except upon application being made
and permit granted.
   (B)   The permit will only be granted when it is impossible to install a
direct connection to the public main. In such cases the property owner shall,
in addition to making the application and having the connection made by a
proper contractor, be required to notify the Department to inspect the
installation. The Department shall make and keep a permanent record of the
location and connection line.
   (C)   The use of one lateral or connection will not normally be permitted
for two or more lots or properties unless occupied by one building.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.037 EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Connections heretofore made with the public sewers shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter so far as applicable without reconstruction. No
reconstruction of any existing private drainage shall be required except by the
order of the Village Board upon report of the Department that the same is
necessary for the proper operation of the public sewers or the maintenance of a
sanitary condition of the property drained.
   (B)   Any change in an existing sewer connection, or appurtenances thereto,
shall be made under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.038 REPAIRS AND CLEANING.
   When repairs are necessary for the connection between the main and the
property line, the work shall be performed under the supervision of the
Department, at the expense of the property owner. All rooting and cleaning of
the sewer laterals or house sewers from cleanouts located on private property
shall be done by licensed plumbing contractors. If the cleaning cannot be
accomplished by the plumbing contractor or if the work must be performed in a
street, alley or public grounds, the plumbing contractor shall be charged with
the cost of the work.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
**** REGULATIONS ****
§ 51.050 CONTROL OF VOLUME AND TYPE OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Sewer users who discharge a large volume of strong waste over a short
period of time may be ordered to discharge such waste uniformly over a longer
period of time as the Department deems it necessary for the satisfactory
operation of the disposal plant.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged into any public or private sewer any of the following described
substances, materials, water or wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any water or wastes containing emulsified oil or grease exceeding
on analysis an average of 15 milligrams per liter;
      (4)   Any water or wastes which contain more than ten milligrams per
liter by weight of the following gases: hydrogen, sulfide, sulfide dioxide or
nitrous oxide;
      (5)   Any water or wastes that contain grease or oil or other substances
that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F;
      (6)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or triturated;
      (7)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, rags,
wipes (including wipes labeled as “flushable”), feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
paunch, manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residue, beer
or distillery slops, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery waste, bulk
solids or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction
to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any water or wastes that contain phenols in excess of 0.30
milligrams per liter;
      (9)   Any water or wastes having corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage treatment
plant. Free acids and alkalis of such wastes must be neutralized within a
permissible range of pH between 5.0 and 10.5;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving water of the wastewater treatment plant, including, but not limited
to cyanides, total chromium, copper, zinc, cadmium, nickel and phenols in
wastes as discharged to the public sewer. The following concentrations shall
not be exceeded in industrial wastes discharged to the public sewers:
         (a)   Grease, oil or sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Public Works Department they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of standard approved type and capacity which
meets village and state code requirements and shall be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all grease, oil or
sand interceptors shall be owned and maintained by the owner at his or her
expense, in continuously efficient operation at all time.
2024 S-16
         (b)   The Village Board reserves the right to amend any or all
requirements relating to the nature, type, concentration or other analysis of
the forgoing or other substances, materials or waters that discharge into any
public or private sewer.
         (c)   Any water or waste which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, releases obnoxious gases.
         (d)   Concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions or other wastes
which are highly colored or wastes which are of unusual volume, concentration
of solids or composition, as for example in total suspended solids of inert
nature (such as Fuller’s earth) and/or in total dissolved solids (such as
sodium chloride, calcium chloride or sodium sulfate) or unusual in BOD shall be
subject to determination by the commission for:
            1.   Approval or rejection of admission to the public sewer;
            2.   Modification at the point of origin to permit admission; or
            3.   Pretreatment by owner to permit admission.
         (e)   Any water or waste which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, releases obnoxious gases, develops color of
undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable concentration or
create any other condition deleterious to structures and treatment processes
shall be subject to control of the Village Board.
         (f)   1.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or
wastes having a five day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 mg/l;
containing more than 350 mg/l of suspended solids; containing any quantity of
substances having the characteristics described in Art. 4, § 71-405-b; or
having an average daily sewage flow of 10,000 gallons shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Village Board. Where necessary, in the opinion of
the Village Board, the owner shall provide at his or her expense such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to: reduce the biochemical oxygen
demand to 300 mg/l and the suspended solids to 350 mg/l; reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in §
405b; or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Village Board and the Environmental Protection Agency, and no
construction of such facilities shall be commenced until the approval is
obtained in writing.
            2.   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are
provided for any water or wastes, they shall be owned and maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
   Waste or Chemical      Concentration mg/l
   Arsenic            0.25
   Barium            2.0
   Cadmium            0.3
   Chromium (total)         2.0
   Copper            1.0
   Cyanide            0.5
   Lead               0.3
   Manganese            1.0
   Mercury            0.2
   Nickel               3.0
   Oil (hex insolubles)         15.0
   pH (must be met at all times)   5-10.5
   Phenols            0.3
   Silver               0.2
   Zinc               4.0
            3.   These maximum concentrations may be changed as necessary by
the Public Works Department or state regulatory agencies based on new
information concerning inhibitory substances or to protect treatment plant
processes. Industrial discharges covered by federal pretreatment requirements
shall meet those limitations specified under the effluent guidelines under §§
304b through 307b of the Federal Act (33 USC 1314 through 33 USC 1317) or the
above concentrations, whichever is more stringent. Major contributing
industries discharging incompatible pollutants into the public sewer shall be
regulated.
      (11)   Any water or wastes containing the discharge of acid pickling
wastes or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not, which are
capable of causing any obstruction, damage or corrosion in the sewers or the
sewage treatment plant.
      (12)   Any water containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual provision, attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      (13)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or other substance which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes is capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance and repair.
      (14)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes having half-life of more than 100
days, without special written permit by the Village Board.
      (15)   Any wastes that for a duration of 15 minutes have a concentration
greater than five times that of normal sewage, as measured by suspended solids
and BOD.
      (16)   Any waters, wastes, materials or substances which react with water
or wastes in the sewer system to release noxious gases, develop color of
undesirable intensity, form suspended solids in objectionable concentration or
create any other condition deleterious to structures, treatment processes and
discharges.
      (17)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
slug, as defined herein.
   (C)   Any contributor shall, upon request by the Village Board, provide a
central collection point to facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of
the waters or waste. The collection points shall be accessible and easily
located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Village Board. The collection point shall be installed and maintained by the
owner at his or her expense. In the event no collection point is established or
required, the nearest downstream manhole shall be considered as a collection
point for the property which is being served.
   (D)   Written order shall be given the sewer user to comply with any
provision of this section. The order shall specify a definite length of time in
which the sewer user shall comply with such an order.
   (E)   Cesspool and septic tank waste, including the wastes from vehicles
known as campers and trailers, may be dumped or discharged into the sanitary
sewer system of the village at the wastewater treatment plant of the Sewer
Department system in the manhole provided, and no such waste shall be dumped or
discharged into the sanitary sewer system of the village at any other place. No
person shall dump any such waste into the sewer system of the village without
first obtaining a written permit to do so from the manager of the Water and
Sewer Department of the village. The application for the permit and the permit
shall be on a form or forms to be provided by the Water and Sewer Department.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2006-8, passed 9-8-06; Am. Ord. 2023-19,
passed 8-1-23)
§ 51.051 AUTHORITY FOR CONTROL OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in this chapter and which in the judgment of the
Public Works Department may have deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facility processes, equipment or receiving waters, including violation of
applicable water quality standards or which otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a public nuisance, the Pubic Works Department may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers; and/or
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
   (B)   All industrial wastes discharged to the public sewers by major
contributing industries shall as a minimum meet the national pretreatment
standards or best practical control technology currently available for
comparable pollutants as published in 40 CFR 125, unless the Public Works
Department is committed, in its NPDES permit, to remove a specified percentage
of the incompatible pollutant. In those instances, the applicable pretreatment
standards may be correspondingly reduced to levels determined by the Village
Board or their duly authorized representative or state regulatory agencies.
   (C)   If the Village Board requires pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Village Board and state regulatory agencies
and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.052 SAMPLING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewer shall be subject to
periodic inspection with a determination of character and concentration of the
wastes. The determination shall be made as often as may be deemed necessary by
the Village Board, but in no case less than two 24-hour composite samples per
month shall be taken.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative of
the composition of the wastes. The sampling shall be accomplished by the use of
automatic sampling equipment capable of collecting composite samples.
   (C)   Access to sampling locations shall be granted to the Public Works
Department or its authorized representative at all times. Every care shall be
exercised in the collection of samples to insure their preservation in a state
comparable to that at the time the sample was taken.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.053 ANALYSES.
   (A)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes
shall be those set forth in the latest edition of “Standard Methods.” However,
alternative methods for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be used
subject to mutual agreement between the Village Board and the industry.
   (B)   Determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes shall be made by the person responsible for the discharge or his or her
qualified agent as approved by the Village Board. The results of the analyses
shall be reported to the Village Board on a monthly basis on forms provided by
the Village Board. The Village Board shall make its own analyses on the wastes
and these determinations shall be binding, except under circumstances in the
following division.
   (C)   In case analyses performed by the industry and the Village Board
result in substantially different values, an effort shall be made by the
industry to collect samples at the same time the Board collects its own
samples. The results of the analyses on the samples collected by the Village
Board and the industry shall be compared using the same testing procedures as
outlined in the latest edition of “Standard Methods” and the differences
negotiated.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.054 CONSENT TO ANNEXATION.
   Properties which are located in the Village FPA and is contiguous to the
village limits shall annex to the village before sewer service is provided, and
being within the village limits shall be a condition of continued sewer
service. Properties not contiguous to the village may be permitted to connect
to the village sewer system, provided that the property owner or owners execute
and file with the village a written agreement, of acceptable form to the
village, to take all necessary action to annex the property to the village when
it becomes contiguous to the village limits. If the owner or owners fail or
refuse to annex once contiguous, the Department shall notify the Village Board,
who may take action to discontinue all sewer service for the premises.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2006-18, passed 11-21-06)
§ 51.055 EXCAVATIONS.
   All sewer excavations in or near a street, alley or public way shall be
made, maintained and filled in accordance with the provisions of the agreement
and permit issued for such work.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.056 FOUL SUBSTANCES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No garbage, except ground garbage when diluted with water in an approved
manner, dead animals, offal or obstruction of any kind whatsoever shall be
placed, thrown or deposited in any receiving basin or sewer.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.057 SUFFICIENT WATER.
   Every person using the public sewers shall provide such fixtures as will
allow sufficient quantities of water to flow into the lateral drain or private
sewer to clear it and shall keep such lateral drain or private sewer
unobstructed at all times.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.058 STORMWATER IN SANITARY SEWER.
   No person and no building, structure or establishment shall discharge any
rain water into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.059 DAMAGING SEWERS OR DRAINS.
   No person shall unlawfully disturb, tear up or injure any public drain or
sewer, manhole or any appurtenances thereof.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.060 PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION OF MAINS.
   (A)   Persons owning property abutting upon streets, alleys or public
grounds may be permitted upon application as in the case of private sewer
connections, subject to the regulations of this chapter, to construct, at their
own expense, sewer mains for the benefit of the property so abutting as set
forth in the Department rules and regulations.
   (B)   The inside diameter of the pipe constituting such sewer mains shall
not be less than eight inches.
   (C)   The sewer mains shall belong to the village and be incorporated in its
sewer system, with such easements as the village deems necessary.
   (D)   No persons other than those issued the construction permit shall
connect with, or in any manner use such sewer main, except in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, not until they have paid to the persons
constructing the sewer main, or other successor, such proportion of the entire
cost of the sewer main to be determined by agreement of the parties or by the
Village Board as the benefit to the property so connected bears to the
aggregate benefit derived from such sewer main.
   (E)   No person shall connect with any such sewer main until he or she
agrees, in writing, that claim will be made by him or her, or his or her
successors in interest, against the village, if such sewer main is removed or
its use discontinued by authority of the Village Board or for any exemption
from any assessment or tax lawfully imposed for the construction of sewers in
the vicinity of his or her property.
   (F)   The Village Board may at any time revoke and annul any such permission
and direct such sewers, pipes or any part thereof, so far as the same are in
any street, alley or public grounds to be discontinued or removed.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.061 OIL/WATER SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Oil/water separators shall be required at automotive service stations,
motor vehicle oil and lube shops, and restaurants that do not have self-
contained vegetable or other cooking oil units that allow the oils to be
disposed of without entering the sanitary sewer or other drainage system.
   (B)   An oil/water separator is defined as a device to trap, remove or
separate deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter such as oil, grease,
gasoline, or other hazardous petroleum base products from normal sewage, liquid
wastes, or storm sewer run-off to discharge into a disposal terminal by
gravity.
   (C)   Oil/water separators shall be located as to be readily accessibly for
cleaning and inspection. It shall be the property owner's responsibility for
installation, regular cleaning, and yearly inspection by a qualified
professional. Records of all the preceding shall be kept by the owner and be
made available to the village or the Rockton Sanitary District upon request.
   (D)   Any person or business owner violating the provisions of this section
shall be subject to a fine up to $1,000 for each violation. Each day of the
violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 2002-10, passed 4-16-02)
§ 51.062 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person or entity
shall sell, transfer or convey ownership of a building serviced by village
sewer until such time as a current certification of compliance with this
chapter has been obtained by the property owner and deposited with the village.
Transferring ownership in violation of this division shall constitute a
violation of this code and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   Any sale, transfer or conveyance of a building serviced by village
sewer which will not result in any new account establishment or transfer shall
be exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Certification of compliance with this chapter shall be evidenced on a
form provided by the village. A certification form shall be completed and
certified by an Illinois-licensed plumber and shall require at least the
following information:
      (1)   The use of the building;
      (2)   The discharge location of any roof or foundation drain or sump
pump; and
      (3)   Confirmation of compliance or noncompliance with this chapter. No
certification of compliance with chapter shall be considered current after one
year from the date of certification.
   (D)   (1)   In the event a certification of compliance form deposited with
the village indicates noncompliance with this chapter, the village shall notify
the property owner of the noncompliance and shall order the property owner to
bring the building into compliance.
         (a)   Orders applicable to buildings where a roof or foundation drain,
sump pump, or diverter valve installation is illegal shall have a 30-day
compliance period.
         (b)   Orders applicable to buildings where clear water is illegally
entering the sanitary sewer system via an under-the-basement floor connection
shall have a 60-day compliance period.
      (2)   The owner of a building found in violation of this chapter shall be
required, prior to any sale, transfer or conveyance and within the applicable
compliance period, to provide the village with a certification of compliance
form certifying that any building found in violation of this code has been
brought into compliance. Failure by any person or entity required to comply
with this section shall constitute a violation of this code and shall be
subject to sewer disconnection and/or penalties.
   (E)   Any present or proposed owner of a building feeling aggrieved by the
issuance of a notice of noncompliance may appeal such issuance through the
village's customary code violation hearing process.
   (F)   In the event a certification of compliance with this chapter is
required to be deposited on account of any sale, transfer or conveyance of a
building serviced by village sewer within one year from a prior property owner
filing a certification of compliance with this chapter, and the current owner
verifies no change or alteration to the premises has occurred since the time of
sale, transfer or conveyance which renders the premises out of compliance with
this chapter, said verification shall satisfy any certification of compliance
requirement imposed by this section or as a condition to an account transfer.
   (G)   In order not to delay or prevent a pending sale of a property affected
by this section, a buyer or other transferee may deposit with the village
evidence of a contract or accepted bid for work which, when completed, will
bring the property into compliance with the provisions of this chapter within
the compliance period determined by the village, along with evidence that
adequate funds have been paid or escrowed to complete said work, and a
stipulation agreeing to bring the property into compliance with the provisions
of this chapter within the applicable compliance period. Said evidence and
stipulation may only be filed after depositing a certification of compliance
form that indicates noncompliance with this chapter. No seller or transferor
otherwise subject to the penalties set forth in this chapter shall be subject
to the same upon compliance with this subsection. Failure by the buyer or
transferee to bring the property into compliance within the applicable
compliance period shall constitute a violation of this code and shall be
subject to sewer disconnection and/or penalties.
   (H)   A certification of compliance indicates so far as can be reasonably
determined by an Illinois-licensed plumber during a limited visual inspection
of the premises, only that the premises meets the requirements of this chapter.
The village assumes no liability in any property inspection or certification of
compliance required under this code. Any person or entity required to provide a
certification of compliance with this chapter shall bear the full cost and
responsibility of selecting an Illinois-licensed plumber to inspect their
building and to determine compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 5-7-24) Penalty, see §
51.999
**** FEES AND CHARGES; BILLING ****
§ 51.075 COSTS OF LABOR AND MATERIALS.
   The applicant shall pay all the costs of labor and materials for installing
and hooking on to the sewerage system of the village and, upon connection to
the sewerage system, the lines shall become subjected to the control,
management and inspection of the village as a part of the Rockton Sewerage
System.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.076 FEES AND COSTS.
   Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall make payment of fees
and costs or make a deposit based on the estimate cost as follows:
   (A)   For each connection for which the Department is not required to
perform any work:      $600;
   (B)   For each connection made by the Department at the time of sewer main
installation:      $700;
   (C)   For each connection made by the Department in any public way in which
sewer mains are existing:    $650;
   (D)   Permit fees for connection fixtures, pipes or other devices to the
sanitary sewer system of the village. For each structure or building located on
a site which is located outside of the corporate limits of the village, a fee
for connecting that building or structure to the sanitary sewer system of the
village, whether or not the connection is made on private or public land will
be charged based on the fixture-unit value for each such building or structure.
Fixture-unit value for a building or structure shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   For each building or structure containing any of the following
listed fixture types a fixture- unit value shall be assigned in accordance with
the following table:
Fixture Type Fixture Unit Value
Fixture Type                                                Fixture Unit Value
1 bathroom group consisting of tank, water closet, lavatory 6
and bathtub or shower stall
1 bathroom group consisting of flush valve water closet,    8
lavatory and bathtub or shower stall
Bathtub (a shower head over a bathtub does not increase the 2
fixture value) (with or without overhead shower)
Bidet                                                       3
Combination sink-and-tray with food disposal unit           4
Dental unit or cuspidor                                     1
Dental lavatory                                             1
Drinking fountain                                           ½
Dishwasher, domestic                                        2
Floor drains                                                1
Kitchen sink, domestic                                      2
Kitchen sink, domestic, with food waste grinder             3
Lavatory (small pipe outlet)                                1
Lavatory (large pipe outlet)                                2
Lavatory, barber, beauty parlor                             2
Lavatory, surgeons                                          2
Laundry tray (1 or 2 compartments)                          2
Shower stall, domestic                                      2
Showers (group) per head                                    3
Sinks:
   Surgeons                                              3
   Flushing rim (with valve)                             8
   Service (trap standard)                               3
   Service (P tray)                                      2
   Pot, scullery and the like                            4
Urinal, pedestal, syphon, jet, blowout                      8
Urinal, wall lip                                            4
Urinal stall, washout                                       4
Urinal, trough (each 2 foot section)                        2
Wash sink (circular or multiple), each set of faucets       2
Water closet, tank operated                                 4
Water closet, valve operated                                8
 
 
      (2)   For fixtures and devices not listed in subsection (1) above, the
fixture unit value shall be determined by the size of the fixture or trap sized
in accordance
Fixture drain or trap size Fixture Unit Value
Fixture drain or trap size Fixture Unit Value
Smaller than 1½ inches    1
1½ inches                 2
2 inches                   3
2½ inches                 4
3 inches                   5
4 inches                   6
Larger than 4 inches       7
 
      (3)   (a)   For a continuous or semi-continuous flow into a drainage
system, such as from a pump ejector, air conditioning equipment or similar
device, two fixture units shall be assigned for each gallon- per-minute of
flow.
         (b)   The total fixture-unit value for each building or structure
shall be determined by adding the total fixture unit value contained in the
building or structure in accordance with subsections (1), (2) and (3)(a) above,
and the fee for connecting any such building or structure to the sanitary sewer
system of the village shall be determined by the total number of fixture values
in such building or structure in accordance with the following table:
 
Total Fixture Unit Values in Each Building or Structure Fees to be Charged
1 to 22                                                 $600
23 to 88                                                $700
89 to 176                                               $800
176 or more                                             $700
 
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2025-13, passed 6-3-25)
§ 51.077 PAYMENT CONDITION PRECEDENT.
   No permit shall be issued until the required payment or deposit has been
made to the Village Board.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.078 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   Rates and charges for use of the sanitary sewer system of the village are
established as set forth below. Such rates or charges are a lien upon the real
estate upon or for which service is supplied whenever the charges or rates
become delinquent in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8.
   (A)   Beginning June 1, 2023, every user shall pay a sewer base rate in
accordance with the below schedule as follows. Such base rate shall be paid for
every service connection regardless of whether there is any monthly usage or
regardless of whether the serviced premises is occupied.
June 1, 2023 $10.00
June 1, 2024 $11.00
June 1, 2025 $12.10
June 1, 2026 $13.31
June 1, 2027 $14.64
June 1, 2028 $16.10
June 1, 2029 $17.71
June 1, 2030 $19.48
 
   (B)   In addition thereto, beginning June 1, 2023, every user shall pay a
sewer usage fee for each 100 cubic feet of water usage per month in accordance
with the below schedule as follows:
June 1, 2023 $5.10
June 1, 2024 $5.61
June 1, 2025 $6.17
June 1, 2026 $6.79
June 1, 2027 $7.47
June 1, 2028 $8.21
June 1, 2029 $9.03
June 1, 2030 $9.93
 
   (C)   Non-metered sewer billing. Non-metered sewer accounts shall be billed
based off a five-person average of 2,072 cubic feet per month usage, at the
then current sewer usage rates, plus the base sewer rate and plus the watershed
charge.
   (D)   There shall be no reduction of sewer rates during any month of the
year.
   (E)   On the April 2021 bill, a one-time $5 surcharge shall be assessed to
each sewer account to help pay for village’s membership dues to participate in
the Rock River Watershed Group. Thereafter, commencing with the May 1, 2021
bill, a $.42 per month surcharge shall be assessed to each sewer account to
help pay for the village’s annual membership dues to participate in the Rock
River Watershed Group. Such surcharge shall continue until such time as may be
discontinued by action of the Village Board. The Village Board reserves the
right to take Board action to amend the monthly surcharge amount from time to
time based on the amount of the membership dues owed by the village.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 1992-1, passed 1-6-92; Am. Ord. 2003-25
(2), passed 12-16-03; Am. Ord. 2011-4, passed 2-8-11; Am. Ord. 2018-5, passed
2-6-18; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 5-7-19; Am. Ord. 2020-21, passed 12-1-20; Am.
Ord. 2021-3, passed 1-19-21; Am. Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-20-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
7, passed 3-21-23)
§ 51.079 COMPUTATION OF WATER.
   Computation of water consumed by residential, commercial, industrial and
other establishments connected to the sewer system, which have their own water
supply and also purchase water from the village shall be as follows:
   (A)   The charge for sewer service upon that portion of the water consumed
which is metered shall be calculated in accordance with the rates set up;
   (B)   The charge for sewer service upon that portion of the water consumed
which is not metered shall be calculated in accordance with the rates set up
for water usage.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.080 COMPUTATION OF BILLS.
   The rates and charges for sewer service, as herein specified, shall be used
in computing the gross bill. The net bill, unless payable annually or
semiannually, shall be payable on or before the twenty-first day of the month
succeeding the period for which the service is billed. In the event the
customer fails to pay the net bill on or before the twenty-first day of the
month succeeding the period for which the service is billed, the bill will be
deemed delinquent, and the gross bill will become due and payable. The current
bill for sewer services may be combined with the current bill for water
services for the same premises. All provisions of this chapter with reference
to the payment and collection of sewer bills shall be applicable to the portion
of the combined bill attributed to water service.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-20-22)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 51.095 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Owners who have sewer service connections, pipes or other plumbing
fixtures which do not conform to the requirements of this chapter at the time
of its passage, or at any time thereafter, shall be required to change their
sewer service connection, pipes or other plumbing fixtures to conform to such
requirements when so instructed by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   A notice to the consumer, occupant or user of the service for
nonpayment of a bill shall be mailed to the consumer, occupant or user ten days
after the due date of the bill. If the bill is not paid within ten days after
the date of the notice, a second and final notice shall be provided to the
consumer, occupant or user by posting on the front door of the address for
which service is supplied. If the bill is not paid within 24 hours after
posting of the second or final notice, water service will be discontinued.
   (C)   The Public Works Department may turn off the water and discontinue or
refuse water service to any sewer user who has been or is in violation of any
part of this chapter or who refuses or fails to pay for any charges made by the
village pursuant to any provision of this code including the provision of §
51.099.
   (D)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or of any lawful order of
the Department or village shall be subject to the penalties specified in this
code of ordinances. A separate offense will be considered to have been
committed on each day on which a violation is permitted to continue.
   (E)   The installation of sanitary sewer laterals or connections from the
public sewer mains to private property shall be made by the Department at the
direction and under the supervision of the Village Board.
   (F)   The installation of a connection from a private property to the
sanitary sewer system, other than by a direct connection, shall only be made at
the direction and under the supervision of the Village Board.
   (G)   To the extent any person makes or allows an impermissible discharge
into any public or private sewer, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
which results in the village incurring costs to repair, unclog or clean out the
sewer, or any portion thereof, such person shall be responsible for reimbursing
the village for such costs.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-20-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
19, passed 8-1-23)
§ 51.096 AUTHORIZED PUBLIC CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   When so authorized and directed or when an emergency circumstance
exist or arises, the Department may authorize other persons to make or install
sewer connections from the public main to private property.
   (B)   In such cases, the Department shall furnish written authority to
perform the work. Any police officer or other city official shall, on observing
or being informed of the excavating by any person other than the Department of
a connection to the public main, require such person to exhibit his or her
authority or permit. If none has been granted, or if the exhibition be refused,
the officer shall without delay report the facts to the manager of the
Department.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.097 SERVICE CALLS.
   A customer or plumber who requests excessive service calls shall pay a fee
as follows: between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any regular work
day, not less than $15 for each service call; between the hours of 5:00 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. or on Saturday, Sunday or holidays, not less than $25 for each
service call, unless the Department assumes the responsibility because of a
problem with the system, material or labor.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.098 SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   No statement in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or contract between the village and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment subject to the rate and cost established by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88)
§ 51.099 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill and that any payment made for any charge shall be effective only
upon actual receipt of such payment by the village during normal business
hours; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before the tenth day after the
original due date of the bill, a first notice of nonpayment will be mailed to
the consumer, occupant, or user. If the bill is not paid within ten days after
the date of the notice, a second and final notice shall be provided to the
consumer, occupant or user by posting on the front-door of the address for
which service is supplied. If the bill is not paid within 24 hours after
posting of the second or final notice, water service will be discontinued; and
      (3)   That by request to the Village Clerk within ten days after receipt
of a bill for sewer services, any customer disputing the correctness of the
bill shall have a right to a hearing at which time the customer may be
represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing
and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to
the city official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   That pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8, such charges or rates are a lien
upon the real estate upon or for which service is supplied whenever the charges
or rates become delinquent.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.51.
(Am. Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-20-22)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons, firm, company, corporation or association or their
representatives violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction or a
finding of liability, the village may seek an order: requiring the violator to
remediate such violation at the violator's sole costs and expense; authorizing
the village to remediate the violation with the village being reimbursed by the
violator for any and all costs, incurred by the village for such remediation;
and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750 per day for each and every
violation with each day a violation exists constituting a separate offense. In
addition to any other relief available to the village, the village may apply to
a court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and/or permanent
injunction. The village shall also be entitled to recover any and all costs,
including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of enforcing any violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1988-4, passed 3-28-88; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14)
2024 S-16
CHAPTER 52: GROUNDWATER PROTECTION AREA
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Findings
   
52.03   Purpose and intent
   
52.04   Definitions
   
52.05   Establishment of setback zones
   
52.06   Applicability
   
52.07   Groundwater Protection Overlay Zones
Operating Permits and Permit Conditions
   
52.20   General conditions
   
52.21   Permit applications
   
52.22   Reporting
Regulations
   
52.35   Regulations which apply within the minimum setback zone of the GWPA
   
52.36   Regulations which apply within the maximum setback zone of the GWPA
   
52.37   Regulations which apply within the five year capture zone of the GWPA
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.50   Unauthorized releases
   
52.51   Closure permits and permit conditions
   
52.52   Enforcement
   
52.53   Notice of violation
   
52.54   Appeals
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be hereinafter known as the “Groundwater Protection
Ordinance” and may be cited as such and will be hereinafter referred to as
“this chapter” and same shall be and constitute.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.02 FINDINGS.
   The village finds that:
   (A)   The continued availability of a natural, uncontaminated supply of
water is an important and vital resource benefitting the residents of the
village; and
   (B)   It is in the best interest of the present and future residents of the
village both economically and in regard to health, that steps be taken to
reduce the risk of contamination to the water supply; and
   (C)   Restricting the number of future potential sources of contamination to
the water supply of the village pursuant to the guidelines established by this
chapter and the Illinois Groundwater Protection Act is a reasonable means by
which to attempt to provide for a continued unpolluted source of water for the
residents of the village and surrounding areas; and
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   In the interest of securing the public health, safety and welfare,
to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater resources in order to
assure a safe and adequate water supply for the present and future generations
and to preserve groundwater resources currently in use and those aquifers
having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply to all properties located within the village.
      (2)   This chapter established regulations for land uses within the
Groundwater Protection Areas for inspection and monitoring standards for new
regulated substance facilities, uniform standards for release reporting,
emergency response, substance management planning, permit procedures and
enforcement.
   (B)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to provide a method:
      (1)   To protect the groundwater resources of the village and the
surrounding area;
      (2)   To provide a means of regulating land uses within the Groundwater
Protection Areas;
      (3)   To protect the village's drinking water supply and that of the
surrounding area from potential impacts by facilities that store, handle,
treat, use or produce substances that pose a hazard to groundwater quality.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as stated in this chapter, and unless a different meaning of a word
or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms in this
chapter shall be the same as those used in the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act and the Illinois Groundwater Protection Act (415 ILCS 55/1 et
seq.), as amended from time to time.
   ACT. The Illinois Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.)
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   AQUIFER. Saturated (with groundwater) soils and geologic materials which are
sufficiently permeable to readily yield economically useful quantities of water
to wells, springs or streams under ordinary hydraulic gradients.
   BOARD. The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A device that is designed to contain an unauthorized
release, retain it for cleanup and prevent released materials from penetrating
into the ground.
   FACILITY. This term means:
      (1)   Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline,
including but not limited to any pipe into a sewer or publicly-owned treatment
works, well, pit, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, motor vehicle, rolling stock or aircraft; or
      (2)   Any site or area where a hazardous substance has been deposited,
stored, disposed of or placed or otherwise to be located.
   GROUNDWATER. Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION AREA (GWPA). The portion of an aquifer within the
Minimum Setback Zone, Maximum Setback Zone or Five Year Capture Zone of a well
or well-field, as delineated in Exhibit 2 attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit
1 attached to Ord. 2017-32.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES. Zones of the GWPA designated to
provide differential levels of protection. Each GWPA is subdivided into three
groundwater protection overlay zones as described below and as illustrated in
Exhibit 2 attached to Ord. 1998-28.
      (1)   ZONE 1: MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The geographic area located between a
well or well-field providing potable water to a community water supply and a
radial area of 400 feet (122 meters).
      (2)   ZONE 2: MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE. The geographic area located between a
well or well-field providing potable water to a community water supply and a
regular or irregularly shaped area not to exceed 1,000 feet (305 meters) from
the wellhead, but excluding the minimum setback zone.
      (3)   ZONE 3: FIVE-YEAR CAPTURE ZONE. The geographic area located between
a well or well-field providing potable water to a community water supply and
the delineated five-year zone of capture, but excluding Zones 1 and 2.
   NEW POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE. This term means:
      (1)   A potential primary source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of December 7, 1998;
      (2)   A potential primary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the primary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of December 7, 1998; or
      (3)   A potential primary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. The reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place.
   NEW POTENTIAL ROUTE. This term means:
      (1)   A potential route which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of December 7, 1998; or
      (2)   A potential route which expands laterally beyond the currently
permitted boundary or, if the potential route is not permitted, the boundary in
existence as of December 7, 1998.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   NEW POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE. This means:
      (1)   A potential secondary source which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of December 7, 1998; or
      (2)   A potential secondary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the secondary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of December 7, 1998, other than an expansion for
handling of livestock waste or for treating domestic wastewaters; or
      (3)   A potential secondary source which is a part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
      (4)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   OPERATOR. Any person in control of or having responsibility for daily
operation of a facility.
   OWNER. Any person who owns a site, facility or unit or part of a site,
facility or unit or who owns the land on which the site, facility or unit is
located.
   PERSON. Any person, individual, public or private corporation, firm,
association, joint venture, trust, partnership, municipality, governmental
agency, political subdivision, public officer, owner, lessee, tenant or any
other entity whatsoever or any combination of such, jointly or severally.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary and
domestic purposes meeting currently accepted water supply practices and
principals.
   POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the treatment, storage or disposal of any hazardous
or special waste not generated at the site;
      (2)   Is utilized for the disposal of municipal waste not generated at
the site, other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris;
      (3)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating, surface impounding
or piling of any hazardous or special waste that is generated on the site or at
other sites owned, controlled or operated by the same person; or
      (4)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 75,000 pounds (34,020
kilograms) above ground or more than 7,500 pounds (3,402 kilograms) below
ground of any hazardous substances.
   POTENTIAL ROUTE. Abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds,
drainage wells, all injection wells, including closed loop heat pump wells and
any excavation for the discovery, development or production of stone, sand or
gravel.
   POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE. Any unit at a facility or a site not currently
subject to a removal or remedial action, other than a potential primary source
which:
      (1)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating or surface
impounding of waste that is generated on the site or at other sites owned,
controlled or operated by the same person, other than livestock and landscape
waste and construction and demolition debris;
      (2)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 pounds (11,340
kilograms) but not more than 75,000 pounds (34,020 kilograms) above ground or
more than 2,500 pounds (1,134 kilograms) but not more than 7,500 pounds (3,402
kilograms) below ground of any hazardous substances;
      (3)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 gallons (94,633
liters) above ground or more than 500 gallons (1,893 liters) below ground of
petroleum, including crude oil, or any fraction thereof which is not otherwise
specifically listed or designated as a hazardous substance;
      (4)   Stores or accumulates pesticides, fertilizers or road oils for
purposes of commercial application or for distribution to retail sales outlets;
      (5)   Stores or accumulates at any one time more than 50,000 pounds
(22,680 kilograms) of any de-icing agent; or
      (6)   Is utilized for handling livestock waste or for treating domestic
wastewaters other than private sewage disposal systems as defined in the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act. (225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.)
   RECHARGE AREA. The area through which precipitation and surface water can
enter an aquifer.
   REGULATED SUBSTANCES. Those substances found in Exhibit 1, attached to Ord.
1998-28 and incorporated herein.
   SATURATED ZONE. The zone in which the voids in the rock or soil are filled
with water at a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure.
   SETBACK ZONE. A geographic area designated pursuant to the Act and this
chapter, containing a potable water supply well or a potential source or
potential route, having a continuous boundary and within which certain
prohibitions or regulations are applicable in order to protect groundwaters.
   SITE. Any location, place, tract of land or facilities, including but not
limited to buildings and improvements used for purposes subject to regulations
or control by the Act or regulations thereunder.
   UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging,
escaping, leaching or disposing of a regulated substance in a quantity greater
than one gallon (eight pounds) from a facility into a containment system, into
the air, into groundwater, surface water, surface soils or subsurface soils.
Unauthorized release does not include: intentional withdrawals of regulated
substances for the purpose of legitimate sale, use or disposal; and discharges
permitted under federal, state or local law.
   UNDERLYING PERMIT. The building permits, sewer tap agreements, stormwater
retention permits, occupancy permits, preliminary plat and final plat (required
by the Rockton Subdivision Ordinance) and any other applicable approval or
permit required by the village in relation to the facility.
   UNIT. Any device, mechanism, equipment or area (exclusive of land utilized
only for agricultural production).
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, driven, dug, fitted or
otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for the
location, diversion, artificial recharge or acquisition of groundwater.
   WELL-FIELD. An area which contains one or more wells obtaining a potable
water supply.
   WELL NUMBER. A well number owned and operated by the village as depicted on
Exhibit 2 attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 2017-32.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2017-32, passed 12-5-17)
§ 52.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF SETBACK ZONES.
   (A)   Minimum setback zones are established as set forth in Exhibit 2
attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 2017-32, as that area
within a 400 feet (122 meters) radius of each existing or permitted community
water supply well within the village or within 400 feet (122 meters) of the
village limits of the village.
   (B)   Maximum setback zones are established as set forth in Exhibit 2
attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 2017-32, as that area
within a regular or irregularly shaped 1,000 feet (305 meters) radius of each
existing or permitted community water supply well within the village or within
1,000 feet (305 meters) of the village limits of the village.
   (C)   Five-year capture zones are established as set forth in Exhibit 2
attached to Ord. 1998-28, which incorporates and adopts the recharge areas
identified by the Groundwater Protection Needs Assessment dated November, 1992,
performed for the village pursuant to § 17.1 of the Act.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2017-32, passed 12-5-17)
§ 52.06 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Persons who own and/or operate one or more facilities in a Groundwater
Protection Area (GWPA) shall comply with this chapter. This obligation shall be
joint and several.
   (B)   All facilities within a Groundwater Protection Area must comply with
this chapter prior to issuance of any underlying permits.
   (C)   If the Village Zoning Administrators determine that a facility,
otherwise exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter, has a potential
to degrade groundwater quality, then the Village Zoning Administrator may
classify that facility as a now potential primary source, a potential route or
potential secondary source and require that facility to comply with this
chapter accordingly. Such determination shall be based upon site specific data
and shall be eligible for appeal pursuant to §
52.54.
   (D)   The following are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   The storage and handling of regulated substances for resale in
their original unopened containers of 5 gallons (19 liters) or 40 pounds (18
kilograms) or less shall be exempt from the permit requirements of this
chapter;
      (2)   Facilities that use, store or handle regulated substances in
quantities of 5 gallons (19 liters) or 40 pounds (18 kilograms) or less of any
one regulated substance and in aggregate quantities of 20 gallons (76 liters)
or 100 pounds (45 kilograms) or less of all regulated substances shall be
exempt from the permit requirement of this chapter;
      (3)   Single-family residences provided that no home business is operated
on the premises;
      (4)   Public interest emergency use and storage of regulated substances;
      (5)   Regulated substances used by or for the village in wastewater
treatment processes;
      (6)   Fueling of equipment not licensed for street use, provided that
such fueling activities are conducted in a containment area that is designed
and maintained to prevent leakage or other violations of this chapter.
   (E)   The following are exempt from this chapter:
      (1)   Fuel tanks and fluid reservoirs attached to a private or commercial
motor vehicle and used directly in the operation of that vehicle;
      (2)   Existing heating systems using fuel oil;
      (3)   The activities of construction, repairing or maintaining any
facility or improvement on lands within Zones 1, 2 or 3, provided that all
contractors, subcontractors, laborers, material men and their employees when
using, handling, storing or producing regulated substances in Zones 1, 2 or 3
use those applicable “Best Management Practices” set forth in Exhibit 3
attached to Ord. 1998-28 and incorporated herein;
      (4)   Cleanups, monitoring and/or studies undertaken under supervision of
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other state regulatory agency
or the United States Environmental Protection Agency;
      (5)   Activities specifically regulated under 35 Ill. Adm. Code 601.615,
616 and 617 (regulations for existing and new activities within setback zones
and regulated recharge areas); 8 Ill. Adm. Code 255 and 256 (regulations for
secondary containment for agricultural pesticide and fertilizer facilities);
and 8 Ill. Adm. Code 257 (cooperative groundwater protection program for
agricultural chemical facilities within appropriate setback zones);
      (6)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route is granted an exception by the Board
(other than land filling or land treating) pursuant to the Act, the owner shall
not be subject to this chapter to the same extent that the owner is not subject
to the Act;
      (7)   If the owner of a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route is issued a certificate of minimal
hazard by the Agency pursuant to the Act, the owner shall not be subject to
this chapter to the same extent that the owner is not subject to the Act.
   (F)   Any action by the Agency or Board referred to in this section shall
not be final and binding on the village under this chapter until the village
has received notice of such proposed action and has had reasonable opportunity
to present evidence concerning its interest.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.07 GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONES.
   (A)   The location of Groundwater Protection Areas in the village are
defined in Exhibit 2 attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit 1 attached to Ord.
2017-32. Groundwater Protection Area maps shall be placed on file with the
Department of Planning, Zoning, Building and Public Works.
   (B)   In determining the location of facilities within the zones defined by
Exhibit 2 attached to Ord. 1998-28 and Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 2017-32, the
following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Facilities located wholly within a GWPA Zone shall be governed by
the restriction applicable to that zone;
      (2)   Facilities having parts lying within more than one zone of a GWPA
shall be governed by the restrictions applicable to the more restrictive zone;
      (3)   Facilities having parts lying both in and out of a GWPA shall be
governed by the restrictions applicable to the more restrictive zone.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98; Am. Ord. 2017-32, passed 12-5-17)
**** OPERATING PERMITS AND PERMIT CONDITIONS ****
§ 52.20 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person, persons, corporation or other legal entities shall install
or operate a facility in a GWPA without first obtaining a groundwater
protection operating permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The focus of review for all permits shall be on the substances that
will be stored, handled, treated, used or produced and the potential for these
substances to degrade groundwater quality.
   (C)   All permits required pursuant to this chapter must be issued prior to
or concurrent with the issuance of permits for construction activities or
underlying permits.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue an operating permit for a
facility unless adequate plans, specifications, test data and/or other
appropriate information has been submitted by the owner and/or operator showing
that the proposed design and construction of the facility meets the intent and
provisions of this chapter and will not impact the short term, long term and
cumulative quantity or quality of groundwater.
   (E)   The application for operating permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be made on a form provided by the village and shall be accompanied by a fee of
$200. The annual renewal fee shall be $25 and shall accompany the annual
certification statement.
   (F)   Any person who owns or operates more than one facility in a single
zone of the (GWPA) shall have the option of obtaining one permit for all
operations if the operations at each facility are similar and the permit
requirements under this chapter are applicable to each facility individually.
   (G)   An operating permit issued by the Zoning Administrator shall be
effective for one year. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit to
operate a facility until the Zoning Administrator determines that the facility
complies with the provisions of these regulations.
   (H)   The facility owner shall apply to the village for permit renewal at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the permit. If an inspection of the
facility reveals noncompliance, then the Zoning Administrator must verify by a
follow-up inspection that all required corrections have been implemented before
renewing the permit.
   (I)   Operating permits may be transferred to a new facility owner/operator
if the new facility owner/operator does not change any conditions of the
permit, the transfer is registered with the village within 30 days of the
change in ownership and any necessary modifications are made to the information
in the initial permit application due to the change in ownership.
   (J)   Within 30 days of receiving an inspection report from the village, the
operating permit holder shall file with the village a plan and time schedule to
implement any required modifications to the facility or to the monitoring plan
needed to achieve compliance with the intent of this chapter of the permit
conditions. This plan and time schedule shall also implement all of the
recommendations of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.21 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Contents of application. The operating permit application shall
include at a minimum the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of owner/operator;
      (2)   Property address, legal description and property code number or tax
identification number of the facility;
      (3)   The names and volumes of all regulated substances which are stored,
handled, treated, used or produced at the facility being permitted in
quantities greater than the de minimis amounts specified in §
52.06 Copies of all leases pertaining to the facility;
      (4)   A detailed description of the activities conducted at the facility
that involve the storage, handling, treatment, use or production of regulated
substances in quantities greater than the de minimis amounts specified in §
52.06;
      (5)   A description of the containment devices used to comply with the
requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   A Regulated Substances Management Plan for the facility;
      (7)   A description of the procedures for inspection and maintenance of
containment devices;
      (8)   A description of the method for disposal of regulated substances;
      (9)   Ten copies of a site plan showing the location of the facility and
its property boundaries and the locations where regulated substances in
containers larger than 5 gallons (19 liters) or 40 pounds (18 kilograms) in
size are stored, handled, treated, used or produced and the location of each
containment device.
   (B)   Conditions for GWPA permits issued to new facilities.
      (1)   Containment devices.
         (a)   The owner/operator of a facility must provide containment
devices adequate in size to contain on-site any unauthorized release of
regulated substances from any area where these substances are either stored,
handled, treated, used or produced. Containment devices shall prevent such
substances from penetrating into the ground. Design requirements for
containment devices include:
            1.   The containment device shall be large enough to contain 110%
or the volume of the container in cases where a single container is used to
store, handle, treat, use or produce a regulated substance. In cases where
multiple containers are used, the containment device shall be large enough to
contain 150% of the volume of the largest container or 10% of the aggregate
volume of all containers, whichever is greater;
            2.   All containment devices shall be constructed of materials of
sufficient thickness, density and composition to prevent structural weakening
of the containment device as a result of contact with any regulated substance.
If coatings are used to provide chemical resistance for containment devices,
they shall also be resistant to the expected abrasion and impact conditions.
Containment devices shall be capable of containing any unauthorized release for
at least the maximum anticipated period sufficient to allow detection and
removal of the release;
            3.   If the containment device is open to rainfall, then it shall
be able to accommodate the volume of precipitation that could enter the
containment device during a 24-hour, 100-year storm, in addition to the volume
of the regulated substance storage required in subsection (a)1 above;
         (b)   Containment devices shall be constructed so that a collection
system can be installed to accumulate, temporarily store, permit detection of
the presence of and permit removal of any storm runoff or regulated substance;
         (c)   Containment devices shall include monitoring procedures or
technology capable of detecting the presence of a regulated substance within 24
hours following a release.
      (2)   Regulated Substances Management Plan.
         (a)   1.   A Regulated Substances Management Plan indicating
procedures to be followed to prevent, control, collect and dispose of any
unauthorized release of a regulated substance shall be required as a condition
of each operating permit. If a spill prevention control plan or similar
contingency plan has been prepared in accordance with Illinois or United States
Environmental Protection Agency requirements, a Regulated Substance Management
Plan is not required as long as all of the regulated substances are included in
the spill prevention control plan.
            2.   The Regulated Substances Management Plan shall include:
               a.   Provisions to address the regulated substances monitoring
requirements;
               b.   Provisions to train employees in the prevention,
identification, reporting, control, disposal and documentation of any
unauthorized release of a regulated substance.
          (b)   The owners or operators of all new facilities shall implement
regulated substances monitoring as part of the Regulated Substances Management
Plan required by this section. Visual monitoring must be implemented unless it
is determined by the village to be infeasible.
         (c)   All regulated substance monitoring activities shall include the
following:
            1.   A written routine monitoring procedure which includes, when
applicable: the frequency of performing the monitoring method, the methods and
equipment to be used for performing the monitoring, the location(s) from which
the monitoring will be performed, the name(s) or title(s) of the person(s)
responsible for performing the monitoring and/or maintaining the equipment and
the reporting format;
            2.   Written records of all monitoring performed shall be
maintained on-site by the operator for a period of three years from the date
the monitoring was performed. The village may require the submittal of the
monitoring records or a summary at a frequency that the village may establish.
The written records of all monitoring performed in the past three years shall
be shown to the village upon demand during any site inspection. Monitoring
records shall include but not be limited to:
               a.   The date and time of all monitoring or sampling;
               b.   Monitoring equipment calibration and maintenance records;
               c.   The results of any visual observations;
               d.   The logs of all readings of gauges or other monitoring
equipment or other test results; and
               e.   The results of inventory readings and reconciliations.
         (d)   Procedures for the in-house inspection and maintenance of
containment devices and areas where regulated substances are stored, handled,
treated, used and produced shall be identified in the operating permit for each
facility. Such procedures shall be in writing, and a log shall be kept of all
inspection and maintenance activities. The logs shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator with the renewal applications available for inspection at
other times upon 48 hours' notice. Inspection and maintenance logs shall be
maintained on-site by the owner or operator for a period of at least three
years from the date the monitoring was performed.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.22 REPORTING.
   The permittee shall report to the Zoning Administrator 15 days after any
changes in a facility, including:
   (A)   The storage, handling, treatment, use or processing of new regulated
substances;
   (B)   Changes in monitoring procedures; or
   (C)   The replacement or repair of any part of a facility that is related to
the regulated substances.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
**** REGULATIONS ****
§ 52.35 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE OF THE GWPA.
   (A)   Prohibited uses and activities.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route within the minimum setback zone of any
existing or permitted community water supply well in the village or within 400
feet (1.22 meters) of the village limits of the village.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
52.06, no person shall alter or change an existing potential primary source,
potential secondary source or potential route where the alteration or change
would result in a potential source or route that would be prohibited under this
chapter if it were a new potential source or route.
      (3)   No person shall conduct any activity or engage in a use of property
which shall constitute an interference with the health and safety or welfare of
a community water supply well or other water well by the accidental, negligent
or intentional introduction of contaminants. Such activities are declared to be
a public nuisance and are prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   Review and approval of proposed activities.
      (1)   All proposals for new facilities which use, store, handle, treat or
produce a regulated substance within the maximum setback zone (Zone 2) must be
reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for compliance with this chapter,
including obtaining a groundwater protection permit pursuant to this chapter,
prior to issuance of any underlying permit.
      (2)   No groundwater operating permit shall be issued unless a finding is
made by the Zoning Administrator that the proposal will not impact the long
term, short term or cumulative quality of the aquifer. The finding shall be
based on the present or past land use activities conducted at the facility;
regulated substances stored, handled, treated, used or produced; and the
potential for the activities or regulated substances to degrade groundwater
quality.
      (3)   New sources of sanitary sewerage (residential and nonresidential)
shall, as a condition of the building permit, be required to connect to an IEPA
central sanitary sewer system prior to occupancy.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.36 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE OF THE GWPA.
   [RESERVED]
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.37 REGULATIONS WHICH APPLY WITHIN THE FIVE YEAR CAPTURE ZONE OF THE GWPA.
   [RESERVED]
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 52.50 UNAUTHORIZED RELEASES.
   (A)   General provisions. All unauthorized releases shall be reported to the
Zoning Administrator according to the provisions of this section. All
unauthorized releases shall be recorded in the owner's inspection and
maintenance log. An unauthorized release is an unauthorized release requiring
recording if the release is completely captured by the containment device. If
the containment device fails to contain the entire release, the release is an
unauthorized release requiring reporting.
   (B)   Unauthorized releases requiring recording.
      (1)   Unauthorized releases requiring recording shall be reported to the
Zoning Administrator within 24 hours after the release has been or should have
been detected.
      (2)   The incident report shall be accompanied by a written record,
including the following information:
         (a)   The type, quantities and concentration of regulated substances
released;
         (b)   Method of cleanup;
         (c)   Method and location of disposal of the released regulated
substances, including whether a hazardous waste manifest is used;
         (d)   Method of future release prevention or repair. If this involves
a change in operation, monitoring or management, the owner must apply for a new
operating permit;
         (e)   Facility operator’s name and telephone number.
      (3)   The Zoning Administration shall review the information submitted
pursuant to the report of an unauthorized release requiring recording, shall
review the operating permit and may inspect the facility. The Zoning
Administrator shall either find that the containment standards of this chapter
can continue to be achieved or shall recommend the revocation of the permit
until appropriate modifications are made to allow compliance with the
standards.
   (C)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting.
      (1)   Unauthorized releases requiring reporting shall be verbally
reported to the Zoning Administrator immediately.
      (2)   A written report shall be submitted promptly thereafter containing
the following information that is known at the time of filing the report:
         (a)   List of type, quantity and concentration of regulated substances
released;
         (b)   The results of all investigations completed at that time to
determine the extent of soil or groundwater or surface water contamination
because of the release;
         (c)   Method of cleanup implemented to date, proposed cleanup actions
and approximate cost of actions taken to date;
         (d)   Method and location of disposal of the released regulated
substance and any contaminated soils, groundwater or surface water;
         (e)   Proposed method of repair or replacement of the containment
device;
         (f)   Facility owner’s name and telephone number.
      (3)   Until cleanup is complete, the owner shall submit reports
containing the reporting required by §
52.22 to the Zoning Administrator every month or at a more frequent interval
specified by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall either find that the containment
standards of this chapter can continue to be achieved or shall recommend the
revocation of the permit until appropriate modifications are made to allow
compliance with the standards.
   (D)   Owner’s responsibilities upon unauthorized release. Upon confirmation
of an unauthorized release to groundwater, the owner shall be responsible for
immediately accomplishing the following:
      (1)   Locate and determine the source of the unauthorized release of the
regulated substance;
      (2)   Stop and prevent any further unauthorized release;
      (3)   Comply with the requirements for an unauthorized release requiring
reporting.
   (E)   No new substances to be introduced. No new regulated substance may be
introduced at the site of the regulated substance(s) that caused the violation.
   (F)   Village authority. If an unauthorized release creates or is expected
to create an emergency situation with respect to the drinking water supply of
the village or a public water supply well within 1,000 feet (305 meters) of the
village, and if the facility owner fails to address the unauthorized release in
a timely manner, the village or its authorized agents shall have the authority
to implement removal or remedial actions. The actions may include, but not be
limited to, the prevention of further groundwater contamination; installation
of groundwater monitoring wells; collection and laboratory testing of water,
soil and waste samples; and cleanup and disposal of regulated substances. The
facility owner and operator jointly and severally shall be responsible for any
costs incurred by the village or its authorized agents in the conduct of such
remedial actions, including but not limited to all consultant, engineering and
attorney fees.
   (G)   No exemption. Reporting a release to the Zoning Administrator does not
exempt or preempt any other reporting requirements under federal, state or
local laws.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.51 CLOSURE PERMITS AND PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall close or cause to be closed a facility regulated
pursuant to this chapter without first obtaining a closure permit from the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit to
temporarily or permanently close a facility unless adequate plans and
specifications and other appropriate information have been submitted by the
applicant showing that the proposed closure meets the intent and provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Closure permits shall be required for all facilities that cease to
store, handle, treat, use or produce regulated substances for a period of more
than 365 days or when the owner has no intent within the next year to store,
handle, treat, use or produce regulated substances. During the period of time
between cessation of regulated substance storage, handling, treatment, use or
production and actual completion of facility closure, the applicable
containment and monitoring requirements of this chapter shall continue to
apply.
   (C)   Prior to closure, the facility owner shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator a proposal describing how the owner intends to comply with
closure requirements. Owners proposing to close a facility shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Regulated substances shall be removed from the facility, including
residual liquids, solids or sludges to levels specified by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   When a containment device is to be disposed of, the owner must
document to the Zoning Administrator that disposal has been completed in
compliance with the Act;
      (3)   An owner of a containment device or any part of a containment
device that is destined for reuse as scrap material shall identify this reuse
to the village.
   (D)   The owner of a facility being closed shall demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator that no detectable unauthorized
release has occurred or that all unauthorized releases have been cleaned up.
This demonstration can be based on the ongoing leak detection monitoring or
soils sampling performed during or immediately after closure activities.
   (E)   If an unauthorized release is determined to have occurred, the
facility owner shall comply with §
52.50.
   (F)   Facility closure will be accepted as complete by the Zoning
Administrator upon implementation of the closure permit conditions and
compliance with all other provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   No person shall temporarily or permanently abandon a facility in a
GWPA without complying with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The application for a closure permit pursuant to this chapter shall be
made on a form provided by the village and shall be accompanied by a fee of
$200.
   (I)   Any person who owns or operates more than one facility in a single
zone of the GWPA shall have the option of obtaining one permit for all
simultaneous closures if the operations at each facility are similar and the
permit requirements under this chapter are applicable to each facility
individually.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The village shall be the administering agency and shall have the power
and authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
village shall have the right to conduct inspections of facilities at reasonable
times to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)    The Zoning Administrator may revoke any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter after notice to the permittee and after affording the permittee an
opportunity to meet either in person or by telephone if it finds that the
permit holder:
      (1)   Has failed or refused to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Has submitted false or inaccurate information in a permit
application;
      (3)   Has refused lawful inspection;
      (4)   Has an unauthorized release and the Zoning Administrator finds that
the containment standards of this chapter cannot continue to be achieved.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.53 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever it is determined that there is a violation of this chapter, the
notice of violation issued shall:
   (A)   Be in writing and delivered to the owner or operator by regular mail;
   (B)   Be dated and signed by the authorized village agent making the
inspection;
   (C)   Specify the violation or violations; and
   (D)   Specify the length of times (not less than 72 hours) to correct the
violation after receiving the notice of violation.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.54 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the Village Board’s approval, the
Groundwater Appeals Committee. The Committee shall consist of the Mayor, Public
Works Director and Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Any decision by the Zoning Administrator under this chapter may be
appealed to the Groundwater Appeals Committee.
   (C)   The Groundwater Appeals Committee shall also hear petitions to exempt
a facility from the requirements of §§
52.20 through
52.22 as follows:
      (1)   The applicant may demonstrate that the five-year capture zone area
map incorrectly identify the facility as being within the Groundwater
Protection Overlay Zone. The burden of proof shall rest upon the applicant to
demonstrate that the facility location is not within a delineated five-year
capture zone area. The applicant shall be required to present detailed
hydrogeologic and hydrologic information to the Groundwater Appeals Committee
that the facility location is, in fact, not within a five-year capture zone
area.
      (2)   The applicant may be required to present detailed technical
information that a material on the Regulated Substances List does not endanger
the GWPA in the event of an unauthorized release. To continue the permit appeal
process, the applicant shall provide funds to the Groundwater Appeals Committee
to pay for the technical review by the Groundwater Appeals Committee's choice
of consultant of the hydrogeologic and hydrologic information and/or regulated
substance information and shall base its recommendation, in part, on the report
by the consultant.
   (D)   Appeals to the Groundwater Appeals Committee take place by filing an
appeal in writing with the Village Clerk of the village within 14 days after
receipt of a decision in writing from the Zoning Administrator. Petitions to
the Groundwater Appeals Committee to exempt a facility should also be filed
with the Village Clerk of the village. A hearing with the Groundwater Appeals
Committee will be held within 30 days of submission of the appeal or petition.
A decision by the Groundwater Appeals Committee will be made in writing within
30 days of the hearing.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor and a nuisance. It shall be a separate offense for each and every
day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted.
   (B)   Any owner or operator who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be subject, upon conviction in court, to a fine not to exceed $750 per
day per facility.
   (C)   In addition to any fines and penalties set forth above, the owner or
operator shall reimburse the village for all costs incurred as a result of
responding to, containing, cleaning up or monitoring the cleaning up and
disposal of any spilled or leaked regulated substance, including but not
limited to consultant, engineering and legal fees.
(Ord. 1998-28, passed 12-7-98)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Rules and regulations part of contract
   
53.03   Consent to annexation
   
53.04   Water conservation
   
53.05   Fluoridation of water supply
   
53.06   Duty of owner; access for inspection
   
53.07   Enforcement
Service Requirements and Regulations
   
53.20   Access to premises
   
53.21   Service pipe connections and curb stop
   
53.22   Repairs to service pipe connections
   
53.23   Abandoned service pipes
   
53.24   Application for water service
   
53.25   Change of location
   
53.26   Voluntary discontinuance of service
   
53.27   Department not liable for damage
   
53.28   Meters; location, testing, requirements
   
53.29   Public fire hydrants
   
53.30   Private fire protection
   
53.31   Service pipe and main records
   
53.32   Plumbing leaks
   
53.33   Service calls
   
53.34   Boiler and water heater damage
   
53.35   Irrigation systems
Cross-Connection Control
   
53.50   Purpose
   
53.51   Definitions
   
53.52   Water system requirements
   
53.53   Policy
Rates and Charges; Billing
   
53.65   Rates established
   
53.66   Rates and charges for service
   
53.67   Bill payment responsibility
   
53.68   Payment of bills
   
53.69   Estimated bill
   
53.70   Catastrophic failure; abatement of water bill
   
53.71   Use of fire hydrants
   
53.72   Frozen and damaged meter charges
   
53.73   Computation of bill system
   
53.74   Duty of Department
   
53.75   Separation of funds
   
53.76   Duty of Clerk
   
53.77   Duty of Treasurer
   
53.78   Records, accounts and audits
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED SERVICE CONNECTION. An individual service pipe, corporation stop,
curb stop and box or individual service pipe to the curb line with gate valve
and box for a single premises.
   CATASTROPHIC FAILURE. An unforeseen break or failure in a water main, water
line or appliance which uses or is connected directly or indirectly to the
Rockton Village Water Works System where the break or failure is not the result
of any neglect or a failure to perform maintenance by a customer.
   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. The water user or owner of the premises using water
which is supplied by the Department where the structure serviced is other than
a single-family dwelling. This definition shall include multiple-family units
located on the same premises being served through a single water meter, such as
cottages, apartment buildings and residential units located within the same
building.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. A single unit, as defined by the Illinois Condominium Act
and as designated by the Articles of Incorporation of any Condominium
Association, whether the unit is intended for use for residential or commercial
purposes and whether the unit is a single free-standing structure or contained
as a unit within a multi-unit structure.
   CURRENT DELINQUENT ACCOUNT. Any outstanding water bill account of any kind
which is more than 30 days past due as of the effective date of Ord. 1998-17.
   CUSTOMER. The water user or applicant for water service for any premises
which is or is about to be supplied with water by the Department.
   DEPARTMENT. The Water Department of the Village of Rockton.
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any watering system that contains more than two
sprinkling heads.
   MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY. Occupancy by two or more families, firms, corporations
or associations which shall include condominiums.
   OWNER or OWNERS. The person or entity having legal title to the premises
which is, or is about to be, supplied with water by the Department.
   PREMISES or SINGLE PREMISES. A tract of land with one building constructed
for single or multiple occupancy or a tract of land with two or more buildings
constructed for single or multiple occupancy or a tract of land with two or
more buildings having single occupancy. The definition of PREMISES or SINGLE
PREMISES shall not apply to individual trailer courts, parks or camps where the
tract of land is occupied by more than one trailer.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. The water user or owner of any premises
using water which is supplied by the Department where the structure serviced is
used as or designed and intended to be used as a single family dwelling.
   SINGLE OCCUPANCY. Occupancy by one family, firm, corporation or association.
   TENANT. Any customer occupying premises under lease or tenancy from the
owner or person holding under the owner.
   WATER USER. The person or entity actually making use of village water
services on a subject premises.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 9-8-98; Am. Ord. 1999-
19, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2000-22, passed - -00; Am. Ord. 2000-29, passed
1-2-01)
§ 53.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT.
   The provisions of this chapter, including the terms and conditions regarding
payment of bills, rights of the village to collect past due bills and the right
of the village to claim reasonable attorney’s fees as a result of collection
efforts shall be considered a part of the contract between the Department and
every customer, and the acceptance and use of water service shall constitute an
acceptance of such provisions.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 9-8-98)
§ 53.03 CONSENT TO ANNEXATION.
   Properties contiguous to the village limits shall annex to the village
before water service is provided, and being within the village limits shall be
a condition of continued water service. Properties not contiguous to the
village may be permitted to connect to the village water system, provided that
the property owner or owners execute and file with the village a written
agreement, of acceptable form to the village, to take all necessary action to
annex the property to the village when it becomes contiguous to the village
limits. If the owner or owners fail or refuse to annex once contiguous, the
Department shall notify the Village Board, who may take action to discontinue
all water service for the premises.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2006-19, passed 11-21-06)
§ 53.04 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Whenever and for so long as a water emergency exists in the village by
reason of drought, excess usage, shortage of supply or other reason, use of
water from the water system of the village, for uses as hereinafter specified,
shall cease or be curtailed as may be provided by proclamation.
   (B)   The emergency shall be deemed to exist only when so certified and
proclaimed by the Village President, in writing, which certificate, to be
effective, must also bear the written approval of the Chairperson of the Public
Works Committee or Public Works Committee member. If, by such certificate, the
specified uses are not to cease entirely, the certificate shall specify the
rules and procedures for curtailed use.
   (C)   The emergency, and the consequent cessation or curtailment, may be
terminated only be the certificate of the President approved by the Chairperson
of the Committee or Committee member.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons using both
in and outside of the village and regardless of whether any person using water
shall have a contract for water service with the village.
   (E)   The uses for which water service may be curtailed or stopped during
such emergency are as follows:
      (1)   The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, lawns,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other
vegetation;
      (2)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, trailer-houses,
railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   The washing of sidewalks, driveways, filling station aprons,
porches and other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   The washing of the outside of dwellings and the washing of the
inside of office buildings;
      (5)   The washing and cleaning of any business or industrial equipment or
machinery;
      (6)   The operation of any ornamental fountain or other structure making
a similar use of water;
      (7)   Swimming and wading pools not employing a filter and recirculating
system;
      (8)   The escape of water through defective plumbing which shall mean the
knowing permission of defective plumbing to remain out of repair;
      (9)   Air conditioning systems or devices for the cooling or
dehumidification of space for human occupancy in which water from the village
water system is the principal medium.
   (F)   Water conservation measures shall be in effect from June 1 until
September 30 of each year and shall consist of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Odd/even sprinkling. Persons who own, rent, work or otherwise
occupy dwellings, commercial or industrial business, which are connected to the
Rockton water system shall not water, sprinkle, irrigate or otherwise deliver
Rockton water system water to any shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, ground cover,
plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, flowers or other vegetation except on even
numbered days if the last digit of the property street address ends in an even
number (0, 2, 4, 6, 8) or on odd numbered days if the last digit of the
property street address is an odd number (1, 3, 5, 7, 9). A further restriction
is placed on the times of day you may do any of the above listed activities on
your specified day to only between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and 6:
00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   Exceptions. Exceptions to subsection (F)(1) are as follows:
         (a)   Trees, small shrubs, ornamental flowers and ornamental plants,
excluding grass, may be watered by hand by any occupant of the premises on any
day and at any time. Hand watering requires a garden hose, watering can or pail
or other device used to carry water to be handled in the hand of the
individual. Individuals may not allow any sprinkler to operate or garden hose
to distribute water to any plants at any time unless held within their hand;
         (b)   Any resident who either installed or had installed a new yard
during the current calendar year through either seeding or sodding may apply
and obtain permission to water a new yard through the Director of Public Works.
The permit shall expire four weeks after the date of issuance. The permit shall
state the date issued and the date of expiration. In such case, daily watering
of yards is allowed, however, only during the times specified above. The permit
shall be posted in a predominantly visible place in the front of the residence,
preferably on the mailbox belonging to the property.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1991-6, passed 7-15-91)
§ 53.05 FLUORIDATION OF WATER SUPPLY.
   Supply to such approval by the Illinois Department of Public Health as may
be necessary or required, the village is authorized and directed to provide the
means and to proceed with the addition of not more than 1.2 parts of fluoride
to every 1,000,000 parts of water being distributed in the water supply system
of the village.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.06 DUTY OF OWNER; ACCESS FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Board, its authorized agents and other persons duly
authorized by the Village Board shall be entitled to access the premises of any
contributor for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing at any reasonable time to such extent as may be necessary to carry
out the spirit and intent of this chapter, and it shall be deemed a part of the
agreement on the part of the contributor as a condition to his or her
permission to connect with the village water system that such access be
granted.
   (B)   If the owner refuses to move the structure, it shall be removed by the
Department at the owner’s expense, and the owner will be subject to a fine of
not less than $10 or more than $1,000 after notification by the Department.
Each day of violation shall be deemed as a separate violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No public easement shall be blocked by trees, plants, shrubs or any
structure, whether temporary or permanent. Any object, living or non-living,
which impedes ingress or egress of Department equipment or personnel for the
inspection maintenance or repair of the sewer lines in the easement shall be
removed by the owner at the Department's request.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Owners who have water service connections, pipes or other plumbing
fixtures which do not conform to the requirements of this chapter at the time
of its passage or at any time thereafter shall be required to change their
water service connections, pipes or other plumbing fixtures to conform to such
requirements when so instructed by the Manager of the Department.
   (B)   The Department may turn off the water and discontinue or refuse water
service to any customer, consumer or owner who has been or is in violation of
any part of this chapter or who refuses or fails to pay for any charges made by
the Department pursuant to any provision of this code.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this chapter or of any lawful order of
the Department shall be subject to the penalties specified in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
**** SERVICE REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS ****
§ 53.20 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   Any agent of the Department shall have access to the premises of any
customer at any reasonable time to read, repair or remove the meter to inspect
the service, fixtures or uses.
   (B)   An agent or employee of the Department, whose duties require entry
upon private premises, will be provided with a badge or other credentials to
identify him or her as an authorized agent of the Department.
   (C)   Any discourtesy on the part of any employee or agent of the Department
should be reported to the Department office.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.21 SERVICE PIPE CONNECTIONS AND CURB STOP.
   (A)   (1)   All applications for water service pipe connection shall be made
at the office of the Village Water Clerk, in writing, on forms furnished by the
village, by the owner or duly authorized agent of the owner of the premise to
be supplied and shall state truly and fully the uses to which water is to be
applied, the size of the connection desired and the correct lot, block and
street number of the premise to be supplied. The owner shall install a service
pipe connection using such materials and size that the village deems necessary,
however, Type K soft temper copper service pipe is preferred and no service
pipe connection shall be smaller than one inch. The use of polyethylene,
polyvinyl chloride (PVC), chlorinated polyvinyl chloride (CPVC), or other such
“plastic” pipe approved as water service pipe by the Illinois Department of
Health, shall be allowed for residential (single-family or multiple-family)
water service installations only. Any such use of plastic pipe shall include
copper connectors to the meter. The service connection charge for such hook-up
shall be as designated by the Village Board. There shall be no service
connection charge for hook-up for any government taxing entity. However, said
government taxing entities shall be responsible for the reasonable costs of any
necessary hardware, such as meters and check valves.
      (2)   Any permit issued pursuant to application under this section shall
be valid for a period of six months from the date of issuance. If connection to
the village water system and meter installation have not been completed within
that time period, the permit shall be become invalid and a new permit must be
obtained and payment of any and all current applicable fees must be made before
such connection shall be permitted.
   (B)   The service pipe will be extended from the main to a point inside the
curb line and connected to a curb stop. All curb stops that are installed or
replaced shall be located a minimum of five feet, or such other distance as may
be required by the Village Public Works Director, from the edge of any paved or
hard surface (e.g. roadways, driveways and sidewalks). All piping beyond the
curb stop is part of the plumbing and must be installed by the plumber employed
by and at the costs of the applicant.
   (C)   Whenever a plumber has completed work on a new installation, he or she
shall leave the water turned off at the corporation stop in the street or at
the curb stop.
   (D)   (1)   Each building which is intended for human habitation or
occupancy shall have a connection to a public water system, a semi-private
water system, or a private water supply constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Water Well Construction Code (77 Ill. Amd. Code
920) or the Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Amd. Code 930) as well
as in accordance with any additional applicable state and local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
      (2)   (a)   For purposes of this division (D), individually owned
residences that share a common wall or ownership right and have ground floor
access, such as townhouses or rowhouses, shall be treated as separate buildings
and shall have separate connection to a public water system, a semi-private
water system or a private water supply as required in division (D)(1) above.
         (b)   However, such individually owned residences established as a
part of a condominium association may use a single water supply service line
from the public water supply to a centralized location, such as an exterior
manifold or meter room with independent shut off valves to each unit. There
shall be a main shutoff valve at the property line. Such arrangements shall
comply with requirements set forth by the Village Public Works Department.
      (3)   The foregoing requirements for separate meter, service and billing
to each individual condominium unit shall be waived if pursuant to applicable
condominium association by-laws the Condominium Associates assumes
responsibility for payment of water bills for all association members/units. In
order for the waiver to be granted a Condominium Association through its
officers must file with the Village Water Clerk a letter indicating its intent
to assume responsibility for payment of water bills for service to all units
and it must provide a copy of the applicable by-law provision.
      (4)   Condominium units already in existence as of the effective date of
Ord. 2000-29, which do not already have a separate meter and service are exempt
from the provisions of this section unless and until the first of the following
shall occur:
         (a)   The condominium unit is sold;
         (b)   The water service system to the multi-unit structure housing the
condominium units is required to be repaired;
         (c)   The unit or building housing the unit, including common areas,
undergoes repairs or improvements to 51% or more of the structure.
      (5)   Upon the occurrence of the first of the foregoing, the unit owner
is responsible for all costs associated with providing a separate service and a
separate meter to the condominium unit.
   (E)   If more than one service connection is installed with Department
approval to supply a single premises, the piping system of one connection shall
not be connected with the other except with the express permission of the
Commission.
   (F)   The service shut off boxes (i.e. curb stop) shall be under the sole
control of the Department and no one except an employee or person authorized by
the Department shall open the cover of such box or turn off water. However,
licensed plumbers may turn on or turn off water for testing plumbing or making
repairs, but whenever so used, the curb stop or corporation stop shall be left
closed if found closed, or open if found open.
   (G)   An owner of premises without an individual approved water service
connection, or which may otherwise not conform to the requirements of this
chapter at the time of passage, may be required to install a service
connection, curb stop, corporation stop or other changes to conform to this
chapter, as may be required by the Manager of the Department.
   (H)   The service pipe shall be installed only from the main in the street
adjacent to the premise to be served.
   (I)   Application for a service pipe will accepted subject to there being a
city water main adjacent to the premises to be served and the Department shall
not be obligated to extend its mains to serve premises to which no city main is
adjacent.
   (J)   Upon application to the Board of Trustees for a water main extension,
such extension may be made under the rules and regulations adopted by the
Village Board.
   (K)   Application for a service pipe installation will be accepted between
November 1 and April 1, only if the applicant agrees to pay any excess cost
attributable to adverse weather conditions during the installation period.
   (L)   Individual parks or camps may be served with one metered water service
connection.
   (M)   The means of metering individual or privately owned shopping centers,
apartment complexes, institutional and manufacturing sites with more than one
building and with no easement or public dedication may be served with one water
service connection. The number of connections shall be determined by the
Department and by special approval of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1998-14, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 2000-
29, passed 1-2-01; Am. Ord. 2002-11, passed 4-16-02; Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed
9-19-06; Am. Ord. 2014-22, passed 8-19-14; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19; Am.
Ord. 2025-3, passed 3-4-25)
§ 53.22 REPAIRS TO SERVICE PIPE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance and repairs of an approved service connection from the
main to the curb line will be made by and at the expense of the Department,
except as otherwise provided for in division (C) below. If the service pipe
between the curb line and the curb stop and/or the curb stop is leaking, it may
be repaired or replaced by and at the expense of the Department when it is
deemed advisable or warranted, in the judgment of the Department. Existing
service connections which are doubled at the curb may be replaced with a single
or a double connection at the discretion of the Department.
   (B)   If a service connection is replaced or renewed at the request of the
owner for the purpose of providing a larger water supply or for some other
purpose, the Department will install the service connection at the cost of the
owner. If a new connection is installed at the request of the owner in a
different location, the existing connection shall be cut off at the main at the
expense of the owner.
   (C)   Whenever the service pipe from the main to the curb line, including
the curb stop and/or corporation valve, is damaged by someone other than an
employee of the Department, the repairs shall be made by the Department and the
costs thereof charged either to the property owner or the party responsible for
the damage.
   (D)   Any defect or damage in the service from the curb line to the water
meter shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property owner and shall
be repaired by the property owner within a reasonable time or the water may be
turned off, with or without further notice.
   (E)   The Department will use care in its operation or use of the curb stop
or gate valve, but it shall not be liable if the service pipe from the curb or
from the curb stop into the premises is broken or damaged in turning on or
turning off water for repairs, nonpayment of bills or for any other reason.
   (F)   Neither the village nor the Department shall be responsible by reason
of failure in the supply of water for the breaking of any service pipe,
apparatus or water coil.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2014-22, passed 8-19-14)
§ 53.23 ABANDONED SERVICE PIPES.
   Abandoned service connection may be cut off at the main by, and at the
expense of, the Department, except that when the service connection is
abandoned because of the installation of a new connection, as provided in §
53.22(B), the cost shall be paid by the customer.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.24 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   All applications for water service shall be made on forms provided by
the Department, and upon acceptance by the Department, the application shall
constitute a contract between the applicant and the village obligating the
applicant to pay for water service and to state truly and fully the use to
which the water is to be put.
   (B)   A new application shall be made, subject to approval by the
Department, upon any change in tenancy where the tenant has contracted for
water service or upon any change in ownership when the owner has contracted for
water service. When such change is made without giving the Department notice,
within 48 hours after such change, the new tenant or owner may be held
responsible for payment for all water service from the most recent meter
reading.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.25 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A customer who changes his or her residence or business from one location to
another shall be given no further water service until all delinquent bills or
charges due the Department, for which he or she is in any way responsible are
paid in full. If such service has been started inadvertently, it may be turned
off until settlement of such delinquent bill is made, and in that event a
charge will be made for again turning on the water that is established in §
53.33.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.26 VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   A customer desiring to discontinue water service shall give notice to the
Department office. The Department may then cause the water to be turned off and
the meter removed. Water service charges will be made until such notice is
given. The customer shall provide free access to the meter for at least 24
hours after notice is given, so that the meter may be removed. The customer
shall be responsible for the meter until it is removed, and, if lost or stolen,
shall pay the actual replacement cost.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.27 DEPARTMENT NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE.
   In turning on water for any reason, the Department may assume that the
piping and fixtures which the service will supply are in order to receive
service and it shall not be responsible for any accident, break, leakage or
damage which may occur by reason of improper fixture, open or improper
connection or for any other reason.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.28 METERS; LOCATION, TESTING, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Meters and their location.
      (1)   The Department shall determine the size of the meter suitable for
the service requested.
      (2)   All water shall be metered and the bills rendered to the customer,
at rates established by ordinance. The Department, at its option, may place and
maintain a meter upon the service pipe of any customer and furnish such supply
at meter rates.
      (3)   If, at the request of, and for the convenience of the owner of a
tract containing more than one building, water furnished to the premises
through a single meter for the purpose of redistribution to the several
buildings, the size of each block in the applicable rate schedule shall be
multiplied by the number of buildings served through such single meter. For
such premises the minimum bill or charge set forth in the applicable rate
schedule for a 5/8-inch meter shall be multiplied by the number of buildings
served and the product thereof shall be the minimum bill for such premises.
      (4)   All meters and associated check valve(s) shall be furnished and set
by the Department and paid for by the owner. Owners shall provide a suitable
location for placement of the meters and check valve(s). Meters shall be placed
in a horizontal position on the service pipe, not to exceed two feet from the
wall where such pipe enters the building. If the piping will not accommodate a
meter in a horizontal position, the Department may refuse to place a meter
until the piping is changed to permit a horizontal setting. In the event a
meter and/or check valve(s) needs to be repaired or replaced, the Department
shall perform such repair/replacement with the costs of such repair/replacement
being the responsibility of the owner. The costs of such repair/replacement
shall be added to the owner's next water bill.
      (5)   There shall be a stop and waste between each meter and the wall and
a suitable place provided for the meter so as to keep it dry, clean and readily
accessible to employees of the Department. A valve shall be placed on the pipe
on the outlet side of each meter not more than three feet from the meter. All
valves and fittings necessary to comply with these requirements and to provide
connection to the meter, except a coupling or flange at each end of the meter,
shall be provided by the owner.
      (6)   Where a meter, or meters of two inches or lager diameter are
desired, the owner, or his or her plumber, shall obtain instructions from the
Department regarding the fittings and space to be provided.
      (7)   A suitable check valve shall be placed on the outlet side of the
meter, if required by the Department. If a check valve is required, a safety
valve should be inserted on the house piping to relieve any excess pressure due
to heating water.
      (8)   Whenever necessary, in order to meter the entire supply or to
protect the meter, the Department may require that the meter be installed in an
underground chamber or patent meter box approved by the Department. The
installation of the chamber or meter box shall be made by and at the expense of
the owner.
      (9)   All private service connections with the village water supply
hereafter installed shall include a remote recording device installed at a
convenient location on the exterior of the volume of water passing through the
water meter. The remote recording device shall be furnished by the village and
shall remain the property of the village.
      (10)   The customer shall be responsible for the care and protection of
the meter from freezing or hot water damage and from any other injury or
interference from any person. For all such damage, necessary repairs shall be
made by the Department and the cost billed to the customer. If payment is
neglected or refused the water service may be turned off until payment, plus
the change established in §
53.33 for turning on the service is made. Damaged meters may be repaired
without notice to the customer.
      (11)   No one shall interfere with the proper registration of a water
meter and no one, except an authorized employee of the Department, shall break
the seal of a meter. However, the Manager may permit licensed plumbers in case
of emergency to break the seal for draining the pipes or stopping water leaks.
      (12)   Property owners/customers may opt-out of the use of the village's
Automated Metering Infrastructure ("AMI") standard for measuring water/sewer
usage. Any property owner/customer desiring to opt-out shall enter into an opt-
out agreement with the village. Any property owner/customer desiring to opt-out
shall pay an additional monthly fee to cover expenses incurred by the village
to have their meter read manually or by touchpad. The amount of such fee shall
be set by the Village Board and may be amended by the Village Board from time
to time.
   (B)   Testing meters.
      (1)   The Department may remove and test any meter at any time and
substitute another meter in its place.
      (2)   No meter shall be placed or allowed to remain in service if its
average accuracy of registration, as defined by the standard practices of the
American Water Works Association, is known to be more than 2% over or under
100%.
      (3)   The Department shall not be liable for broken pipes, leaking pipes
or damage to any plumbing or fixtures resulting from the changing meter. The
owner shall maintain the pipes, fixtures and plumbing in such repair that a
meter may be removed or installed at any time.
   (C)   Meter requirements.
      (1)   Each premises, whether residential or commercial, that is supplied
water services, that is all of, or a parcel of property that is recorded as a
subdivision whose plat is recorded after July 1, 1987, shall be metered. The
purchase price and cost of installation of all meters shall be paid by the
property owner.
      (2)   Each premises that changes ownership, either through purchase, land
contract or gift, after January 1, 1989, shall, at the expense of the owner, be
required to install a water meter in accordance with the regulations of this
chapter.
      (3)   When 51% of all residential units are metered, but in no case later
than December 31, 1994, all residential owners shall be converted to a metered
system.
      (4)   After December 31, 1994, it shall be unlawful for any owner,
builder or developer to knowingly use or permit to be used water supplied by
the village if no water meter has been properly installed on the premises or if
a meter, once installed, has been bypassed in any manner so that accurate flow
amounts are not recorded.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for an owner, builder, developer, plumber or
any other person to connect village water lines to any premises not having a
properly installed water meter.
      (6)   Violation of subsections (4) and (5) above shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $750. Each day of any violation at any single premises
shall constitute a separate offense. Further, if the violator is determined to
be any officer, employee or agent of any developer or builder or a person
making the unlawful connection to village water lines at the request of any
officer, employee or agent of any developer or builder, any water and sewer
connection permits previously issued by the village for the subject premises at
the discretion of the Village Board of Trustees may be revoked. In the event
that the Village Board contemplates revocation of any permits previously
issued, the permit holder shall be notified by certified mail of the intent and
at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Village Board at which revocation of
the permit(s) is to be discussed, the permit holder (owner, builder or
developer) shall be given an opportunity to speak and present evidence as to
why the subject permits should not be revoked. In the event the Village Board
determines at the conclusion of such hearing that revocation of the permits is
appropriate, the Board by motion approved by the majority of the members of the
Village Board of Trustees shall immediately revoke the permit(s). In such an
event, the permit holder will be notified either personally of the decision if
he or she or an agent is present or by separate mailing sent by the Village
Water Clerk to the last known address of the permit holder. If water and sewer
permits are revoked, no further construction or work of any type shall be
permitted to occur on the subject premises until such time as new water and
sewer connection permits have been applied for and issued. The new permit
application must be accompanied by the proper connection permit fee. In the
event that water and sewer permits are revoked, the village shall not be
required to refund previously paid connection permit fees.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1999-18, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2018-
19, passed 7-3-18; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 2022-12, passed 6-
21-22)
§ 53.29 PUBLIC FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person, except an on duty member of the Rockton Fire District, or
an on duty member of another fire department called in to fight a fire, or an
on duty employee of the Village Public Works Department shall open any public
fire hydrant connected to the village water system.
   (B)   (1)   The Department shall be notified at once when any fire hydrant
is opened by anyone other than the Public Works Department, for any reason so
that it may be inspected following its use. A report shall be filed by the user
of the fire hydrant with the Public Works Department within 24 hours of the
opening of the fire hydrant and such report shall contain the date and time the
hydrant was used, the reason for the use of the hydrant, the location of the
hydrant, the hydrant number, the amount of water drawn from the hydrant, and
any other information which the Public Works Department may request.
      (2)   In the event the Rockton Fire District desires to utilize a village
fire hydrant for fire district training purposes, the Rockton Fire District
shall provide the Village Public Works Department with at least four days prior
notice of the scheduled training. The following are the only fire hydrants
which may be utilized by the Rockton Fire District for training purposes:
         (a)   Hydrant PC 52 located at 1060 E. Union;
         (b)   Hydrant NT 49 located at 201 N. Blackhawk;
         (c)   Hydrant AF 02 located at 12801 Old River Road; and
         (d)   Hydrant RH 48 located at 11810 Old River Road.
   (C)   All newly installed fire hydrants shall have their discharge at least
14 inches, but not more than 26 inches from the surface from which the hydrant
protrudes.
   (D)   No person shall construct, maintain or install any object within 48
inches of a fire hydrant. No person shall install, maintain, construct or
enlarge any barriers, trees, bushes, walls or other obstacles which may hide or
impede the use of a fire hydrant. Property owners shall be responsible for
removing any obstacles which may hinder the Village Public Works Department’s
or the Rockton Fire District’s access to and use of a fire hydrant located on
or adjacent to the property owner’s property.
   (E)   Any user of a village fire hydrant shall be responsible for any damage
(and the costs of repair thereof) caused (or reasonably determined to be cause)
to the village’s water system by such users’ use of a village fire hydrant.
   (F)   Any violation of any provision of this section shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $200 but no more than $750 per violation. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a seperate offense.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2024-16, passed 8-20-24)
§ 53.30 PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Application may be made to the Department for a private fire
connection, by the owner of any premises, in writing, accompanied by complete
and correct drawings showing the location of the premises and of all water
pipes, hydrants, tanks, sprinkler heads and other appurtenances on the
premises. The plans shall remain the property of the Department.
   (B)   The application shall be approved, and the services installed, only
where practical and convenient, in the sole discretion of the Department.
   (C)   All fire service connections shall be installed by the Department from
the water main to the curb line.
   (D)   The fire connections shall be installed with a gate valve at the water
main. The owner shall install a gate valve with an indicator post at the curb
or property line. A detector check valve tapped for by-passing the check valve
and a rising stem gate valve and a low flow meter on the system side of the
check valve shall be installed, by and at the owner’s expense, where and
immediately after the supply pipe enters the premise. The type and make of the
detector check valve shall be subject to the approval of the Department.
   (E)   The applicant shall pay the cost of the installation of such fire
service connections, plus 20% additional to cover overhead expense. All repairs
to the service pipe between the street main and the curb line shall be made by
and at the expense of the Department.
   (F)   The Department may limit the size of fire protection service where the
street mains are of such size as to make it necessary to protect the public. If
more than one service is installed to the same premises, the piping system of
one shall not be connected with the system of the other except by special
permission of the Department.
   (G)   No private fire protection service line shall be larger than eight
inches in diameter.
   (H)   Failure to pay the cost of installing the fire service within 30 days
after the date of the bill will be sufficient cause for turning off the water
in the service.
   (I)   The connection shall be used for fire purposes only and shall have no
connection whatever with any taps used for other than fire purposes, and,
because of the danger of pollution, shall have no connection with any other
source of supply.
   (J)   The customer shall permit no water to be drawn through this connection
for any purpose other than the extinguishment of fires or the period testing of
the fire system.
   (K)   The customer shall give the Department reasonable notice of the time
of all tests, so that, if desired, the Department may have a representative
present. The notification need not be formal, but may be given by telephone to
the office of the manager.
   (L)   Any authorized representative of the Department shall have free access
to the building at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting the
service connections, piping and appurtenance.
   (M)   The Department may, at any time, set a meter on the connection, which
will meet requirements of the insurance companies, at the expense of the owner.
If a meter is installed, the established rates, including both water and
service charges, will apply but nothing herein shall be construed as compelling
the Department to install a meter. The Department shall designate the size and
number of meters necessary for water service other than for private fire
protection through hose connections and the property owner may request the
additional meter or meters that might be necessary because of hose connections
for private fire protection service.
   (N)   Private fire protection service will be supplied subject to the right
of the village to use water in the street mains, through hydrants, for fire
purposes. The Department may shut off the supply at any time in case of an
accident or to make alterations, extensions, connections or repairs. There
shall be no guarantee as to pressure in the service connection, pipe or main
supplying the same, and the Department shall not be liable for loss or damage
to the customer for deficiency or failure in the supply of water, whether
occasioned by accident, alterations, extensions, connections, repairs or for
any cause whatsoever.
   (O)   If the water is shut off, or there is a deficiency or failure in the
supply from any cause continuing for two days or more the customer shall be
entitled to a pro-rata credit on the regular bill.
   (P)   If more than one 2-inch or two 1½-inch hose connections are installed
on a domestic water service, the hose connection shall be installed on a stand-
pipe or riser which is connected to the water service piping on the street side
of the water meter.
   (Q)   Violations of any conditions, rules or regulations shall entitle the
Department, at its opinion, to discontinue the fire service connection and shut
off the service, without notice. Waiver of any violation or violations shall
not be construed as a waiver of subsequent violations.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.31 SERVICE PIPE AND MAIN RECORDS.
   Information obtained from the records, maps and employees of the Department
as to the location of mains and services will be furnished to licensed plumbers
and interested parties but the Department is not responsible for their
accuracy.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.32 PLUMBING LEAKS.
   All complaints of customers shall be promptly investigated. The Department
shall not be responsible for the condition of plumbing and fixtures in the
customer’s premises, but will give all possible assistance in detecting a leak.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.33 SERVICE CALLS.
   (A)   Charges by the Department for turning off water to make repairs, to
locate the curb stop or gate valve or to make an inspection of the water
service or plumbing, when requested by a customer or owner, shall be as
follows: not less then $25 for each service call between the hours of 7:30 a.m.
and 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday; and not less then $50 for emergency
service calls between the hours of 3:30 p.m. and 7:30 a.m. or on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday.
   (B)   In addition, the Department will charge the customer $25 for each
request of transfers, frozen meters, high bills, special reads, service leaks
and miscellaneous calls, unless the Department assumes the responsibility
therefore.
   (C)   The Department will charge the customer $100 for the disconnection of
any service at the curb stop should the customer fail to pay the water bill in
compliance with §
53.68. Disconnections pursuant to this provision and reconnection of services
after payment in full shall be performed by the Director of Public Works or his
or her agents only during regular business hours of 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Monday through Friday. No disconnection or reconnection of services shall be
performed after hours, on weekend days or holidays.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 9-8-98)
§ 53.34 BOILER AND WATER HEATER DAMAGE.
   There being no guarantee of a continuous supply of water, the Department
shall not be liable for damage caused by stoppage of the water supply, to steam
boilers, water heaters or other appliances, units or uses.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.35 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any owner of any premise who plans to install an underground
irrigation system on his or her property shall be required to obtain a permit
from the village. All irrigation systems shall be constructed in such a manner
so as to be in compliance with all State of Illinois and local plumbing codes,
including this section. Existing irrigation systems shall be required to be
registered with the village and file a yearly RPZ testing report by a licensed
plumber.
   (B)   Before any new irrigation system shall be installed, the property
owner shall make an application and pay a $20 administrative fee to the Village
Water Clerk. Any owner who shall refuse to or fails to obtain the permit shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $50 per day but not more than $1,000 per
violation. Each day of violation shall be deemed as a separate violation of
this section.
   (C)   The application shall include a detailed statement of the complete
work to be done on the irrigation system within the premises by a licensed
plumber. After the permit is issued, no change shall be made from such proposal
unless a new application and statement is filed with the Village Water Clerk
and a subsequent permit issued.
   (D)   The proposed system must meet the approval of the Public Works
Director before a permit shall be issued. The Director shall either give or
refuse approval of such project within five working days from the filing of the
application.
   (E)   The connection of the irrigation system and installation of a backflow
prevention assembly (RPZ) to the village water supply must be done by a plumber
who has a CCC DZ license. All irrigation systems must have a reduced pressure
backflow preventer assembly (RPZ). The RPZ can be located outside the premises
provided the assembly conforms to state and local codes and is not subject to
freezing conditions. All RPZ devices shall be checked annually by a certified
cross-connection control device inspector and an inspection report filed with
the village. The irrigation system must meet those requirements of the cross-
connection requirements of §§
53.50 et seq.
   (F)   If a secondary water meter is desired to subdivide the water use
registered by a primary meter, the secondary meter must be located on the
consumer side of the primary water meter and primary backflow preventer. The
secondary water meters must be hard plumbed on subject property and must be
accompanied by an additional backflow prevention device. Only water used for
outdoor purposes which does not enter into the sanitary sewer lines may pass
through any secondary water meter. The property owner shall assume all
responsibility for installing and maintaining such secondary meters and
associated equipment. The proposed secondary water meter should read water
usage in cubic feet in order to coincide with the units of the primary water
meter. Prior to the installation of a secondary water meter, the property owner
shall be required to file an application and obtain a permit from the village
as indicated in division (B). Divisions (C) and (D) apply to this application
and permit as well.
   (G)   The Village Water Department will be responsible for reading the
primary and secondary water meters and calculating the amount of water used for
irrigation purposes. This amount will be credited on the village portion of the
sewer bill that is issued quarterly. These property owners will not be eligible
for the standard 30% discount on the third quarter sewer bill that is granted
to all private users by the village. Additional savings on the Rockton Sanitary
District sewer bill will be the responsibility of the property owner to
ascertain and coordinate with the Sanitary District. The village will supply
the Sanitary District with the necessary readings and calculations if a
discount is in order.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-
18, passed 9-3-19)
**** CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL ****
§ 53.50 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the village from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within its customers’
internal distribution system or its customers’ private water system such
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back-siphon into the public
water supply system; and
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between its customers’ in-plant potable water
systems and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and industrial piping
systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall be responsible for the
protection of the public potable water distribution system from contamination
or pollution due to the backflow or back-siphonage of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Public Works, an approved backflow prevention device is
required at the village’s water service connection to any customer’s premises
for the safety of the water system, the Superintendent or his or her designated
agent shall give notice in writing to the customer to install such an approved
backflow prevention device at each service connection to his or her premises.
The customer shall immediately install such approved device or devices at his
or her own expense and failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
customer to install the device or devices immediately shall constitute a ground
for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices
have been properly installed.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR-GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the vessel. An
approved air-gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe,
measured vertically, above the top of the rim of the vessel and in no case less
than one inch. When an air-gap is used at the service connection to prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public potable water system, an emergency
bypass shall be installed around the air-gap system and an approved reduced
pressure principle device shall be installed in the by-pass system.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Director as meeting an applicable specification
stated or cited in this chapter or as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor's approved public potable water supply. These auxiliary
waters may include water from another purveyor's public potable water supply or
any natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor and the
like or used waters or industrial fluids. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the water purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids or substances under
pressure into the distributing pipes of a potable water supply system from any
source or sources other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means designed to prevent backflow or back-
siphonage.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids or substances under pressure
into the distributing pipes of a potable water supply system from any source or
sources other than its intended source.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT. The installation of an approved
backflow prevention device at the water service connection to any customer's
premises where it is physically and economically infeasible to find and
permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross-connections
within the customer's water system; or, it shall mean the installation of an
approved back-flow prevention device on service line leading to and supplying a
portion of a customer's water system where there are actual or potential cross-
connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point
of cross-connection.
   CROSS-CONNECTIONS CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow prevention device
properly installed that will continuously afford the protection commensurate
with the degree of hazard.
   CROSS-CONTAMINATION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow or back-
siphonage may occur into the potable water system. A water service connection
between a public potable water distribution system and a customer's water
distribution system which is cross-connected to a contaminated fixture,
industrial fluid system or with a potentially contaminated supply or auxiliary
water system constitutes one type of cross-connection. Other types of cross-
connections include connectors such as swing connections, removable sections,
four-way valves, spools, dummy sections of pipe, swivel or changeover devices,
sliding a multi-port tube, solid connections and the like.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director in charge of the Water Department of
the village is invested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective cross-connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly of two independently operating,
approved check valves with tightly closing shut-off valves on each side of the
check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each check
valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications
and approval of a recognized and village approved testing agency for backflow
prevention devices. To be approved these devices must be readily accessible for
in-line maintenance and testing.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which could create or in the judgment of the Superintendent
may create a danger to the health and well-being of the water consumer. An
example of a health hazard is a structural defect, including cross-connections,
in a water supply system.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer's potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air-gap
separation or backflow prevention device. Unprotected plumbing type cross-
connections are considered to be a health hazard.
   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer's potable water aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to
the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer's
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and used waters originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalies; circulated cooling waters connected to an open tower and/or
cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with
toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from wells, springs,
streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems and the
like; oils, gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic and acid solutions and other
liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for
firefighting purposes.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance, (organic, inorganic or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonable affect such waters for domestic use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DEVICE. An assembly of two independently
operating approved check valves with an automatically operating differential
relief valve between the two check valves, tightly closing shut-off valves on
either side of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the
testing of the check and relief valves. The entire assembly shall meet the
design and performance specifications and approval or a recognized and village
approved testing agency for backflow prevention assemblies. The device shall
operate to maintain the pressure in the zone between the two check valves at a
level less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. At
cessation of normal flow the pressure between the two check valves shall be
less than the pressure on the public water supply side of the device. In case
of leakage of either of the check valves the differential relief valve shall
operate to maintain the reduced pressure in the zone between the check valves
by discharging to the atmosphere. When the inlet pressure is two pounds per
square inch or less, the relief valve shall open to the atmosphere. To be
approved these devices must be readily accessible for in-line maintenance and
testing and be installed in a location where no part of the device will be
submerged.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE. Water which is not safe for human consumption or which is
of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE. Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   WATER, SERVICE CONNECTIONS. The terminal end of a service connection from
the public potable water system; including, where the Water Purveyor loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer's water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service
connection, then the service connection shall mean the downstream end of the
meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of
any meter or backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the
customer's water system. Service connection shall also include water service
connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water
service connections from the public potable water system.
   WATER, USED. Any water supplied by a Water Purveyor from a public potable
water system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point
of delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the Water Purveyor.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.52 WATER SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
utility system and the customer system.
   (B)   The utility system shall consist of the course facilities and the
distribution system and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer's
system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the distribution
system.
   (D)   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used for
the delivery of water from the source to the consumer's system.
   (E)   The customer's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.53 POLICY.
   (A)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the Water Purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws and regulations and this chapter. Service of water to
any premises shall be discontinued by the Water Purveyor of a backflow
prevention device required by this chapter is not installed, tested and
maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention device has been
removed, by-passed or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (B)   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the Water Department to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations exist. When such a condition becomes known, the
Superintendent shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with state and village statutes relating
to plumbing and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall also be installed on each
service line to a customer's water system at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line wherever the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which is
not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is not
acceptable as an additional source by the Superintendent, the public water
system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing a
backflow device in the service line appropriate to the degree of hazard;
      (2)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any other
objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall be
protected against backflow from the premises by installing a backflow
prevention device in the service line appropriate to the degree of hazard. This
shall include the handling of process waters and waters originating from the
utility system which have been subject to deterioration in quality;
      (3)   In the case of premises having:
         (a)   Internal cross-connections that cannot be permanently corrected
and controlled; or
         (b)   Intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all
portions of the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes,
making it impracticable or impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous
cross-connections exist, the public water system shall be protected against
backflow from the premises by installing a backflow prevention device in the
service line.
   (D)   The type of protective device required under (C)(1), (2) and (3) shall
depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      (1)   In the case of any premises where there is any auxiliary water
supply as stated in subsection (C)(1) of this section and it is not subject to
any of the following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduction pressure principle
backflow prevention device;
      (2)   In the case of any premises where there is water or substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly;
      (3)   In the case of any premises where there is any material dangerous
to health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device. Examples of premises where these
condition will exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries and planting plants;
      (4)   In the case of any premises where there are uncontrolled cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device at the service connection;
      (5)   In the case of any premises where, because of security requirements
or other prohibitions or restrictions it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete implant cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be
protected against backflow or back-siphonage from the premises by the
installation of a backflow prevention device in the service line. In this case,
air-gap separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention device shall be installed in each service to the premises.
   (E)   Any backflow prevention device required herein shall be of a model and
size approved by the Superintendent of Public Works. The term APPROVED BACKFLOW
PREVENTION DEVICE shall mean a device that has been manufactured in full
conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association entitled:
      AAWA C506-69   Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check
Valve Backflow Prevention Devices:
         Backflow preventors which may be subjected to back pressure or back-
siphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate of
approval by the qualified laboratory and are listed on the laboratory's current
list of “Approved Devices” may be used without further test or qualification.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where
backflow devices are installed to have certified inspections and operational
tests made at least once per year. In those instances where the Superintendent
of Public Works deems the hazard to be great enough, he or she may require
certified inspections at more frequent intervals. These inspections and tests
shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be performed by a licensed
Cross Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The results of the
inspection and test shall be submitted to the village’s cross control
management provider (BSI Online) by the CCCDI. It shall be the duty of the
Superintendent of Public Works to see that these timely tests are made. The
customer-user shall notify the Superintendent in advance when the tests are to
be undertaken so that he or she or his or her representative may witness the
tests if it is so desired. These devices shall be repaired, overhauled or
replaced at the expense of the customer-user whenever the devices are found to
be defective. Records of such tests, repairs and overhaul shall be kept and
made available to the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (G)   All presently installed backflow prevention devices which do not meet
the requirements of this section but were approved devices for the purposes
described herein at the time of installation and which have been properly
maintained shall, except for the inspection and maintenance requirements under
division (F) of this section, be excluded from the requirements of these rules
so long as the Director of Public Works is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the existing device is
moved from the present location or requires more than minimum maintenance or
when the Superintendent finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow device meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (H)   Any customer-user who fails to comply with the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency’s cross connection control requirements and/or any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to having their water service shut
off. Water service shall not be turned on until compliance has been made and
customer-user shall be subject to any of the village’s customary fees and
charges for turning water service back on after shut-off.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2023-20, passed 8-1-23)
**** RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING ****
§ 53.65 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   Rates and charges for water supplied by the water plant and system of the
village are established as follows:
   (A)   For all water furnished for any purpose not hereinafter specifically
mentioned to all residential, commercial, industrial and other establishments
located within the corporate limits of the village, meter rates shall be
charged according to the schedule printed on the monthly bills.
   (B)   For all water furnished for any purposes not hereinafter specifically
mentioned to all residential, commercial, industrial and other establishments
located outside the corporate limits of the village: 1½ times, corporate
resident's rates.
   (C)   For water furnished for private fire protection service, the charge
and rates shall be $6 a month per hydrant billed monthly to be placed in a
special restricted account to be used for fire hydrant replacement costs, new
well construction and/or water main construction. When and if private fire
hydrants are installed on any water service connection which is metered, the
property owner will be billed the regular rates and charges for metered service
in addition to the flat rate annual charge for fire hydrants.
   (D)   For water furnished for sprinkler service, the charge and rates shall
be as follows: $0.04 annually per sprinkler head and the minimum annual charge
shall be $40 when and if sprinkler heads are installed on any water service
connection which is metered, the property owner will be billed at the regular
rates and charges for metered service in addition to the flat rate annual
charge for sprinkler heads.
   (E)   For water furnished for hose connections on a private fire protection
service connection and on unmetered stand pipes connected to any water service
connection, the charge shall be: $8 annually per each 2-inch or larger hose
connection; $4.50 annually per each 1½-inch or smaller hose connection.
   (F)   For water furnished for hose connections on any metered water service
connection, the charge, in addition to water service at the regular established
metered rates and charges shall be: $8 annually per each 2-inch or larger hose
connection; $4.50 annually per each 1½-inch or smaller hose connection. In
addition thereto, if the water use for any purpose is greater than the monthly
minimum charge for the meter or meters in service, a monthly minimum charge for
the meter or meters in service, a monthly minimum charge of the difference
between the minimum charge for a meter or meters necessary to measure the
estimated use for metered hose connections, shall be made.
   (G)   All rates for private protection shall be payable monthly.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2017-15, passed 6-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-6,
passed 3-6-18)
§ 53.66 RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE.
   There shall be, and there are, established rates or charges for the use of,
and for the service supplied by, the waterworks system of the village, based
upon the amount of water consumed, as shown by the water meters as set forth
below. Such rates or charges are lien upon the real estate upon or for which
service is supplied whenever the charges or rates become delinquent in
accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8.
   (A)   Metered water service. General water service furnished through a water
meter shall be available at the following monthly rates to any water user
within the village.
      (1)   Beginning June 1, 2023, residential water users within the village
shall pay a base rate per month in accordance with the below schedule as
follows. Such base rate shall be paid for every service connection regardless
of whether there is any monthly usage or regardless of whether the serviced
premises is occupied.
June 1, 2023 $12.50
June 1, 2024 $13.75
June 1, 2025 $15.13
June 1, 2026 $16.64
June 1, 2027 $18.30
June 1, 2028 $20.13
June 1, 2029 $22.14
June 1, 2030 $24.35
 
      (2)   Beginning June 1, 2023, senior citizen water users (SENIOR CITIZEN
being defined as a person 65 years of age or older) within the village shall
pay a base rate per month in accordance with the below schedule as follows,
provided that the person annually shows proof of such qualification to the
Village Water Clerk.
June 1, 2023 $7.50
June 1, 2024 $8.25
June 1, 2025 $9.08
June 1, 2026 $9.99
June 1, 2027 $10.99
June 1, 2028 $12.09
June 1, 2029 $13.30
June 1, 2030 $14.63
 
      (3)   Beginning June 1, 2023, every residential water user within the
village regulated under this section shall pay an additional rate per month per
100 cubic feet of water usage, in accordance with the below schedule as
follows. This rate shall be assessed in addition to the base rates established
in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
June 1, 2023 $3.55
June 1, 2024 $4.90
June 1, 2025 $5.40
June 1, 2026 $5.94
June 1, 2027 $6.54
June 1, 2028 $7.19
June 1, 2029 $7.91
June 1, 2030 $8.70
 
      (4)   Beginning June 1, 2023, commercial water users within the village
shall pay a base rate per month in accordance with the below schedule as
follows. Such base rate shall be paid for every service connection regardless
of whether there is any monthly usage or regardless of whether the serviced
premise is occupied.
June 1, 2023 $12.50
June 1, 2024 $13.75
June 1, 2025 $15.13
June 1, 2026 $16.64
June 1, 2027 $18.30
June 1, 2028 $20.13
June 1, 2029 $22.14
June 1, 2030 $24.35
 
      (5)   Beginning June 1, 2023, every commercial water user within the
village regulated under this section shall pay an additional rate per month per
100 cubic feet of water usage in accordance with the below schedule as follows.
This rate shall be assessed in addition to the base rates established in
division (A)(4) above.
June 1, 2023 $4.55
June 1, 2024 $5.01
June 1, 2025 $5.51
June 1, 2026 $6.06
June 1, 2027 $6.67
June 1, 2028 $7.34
June 1, 2029 $8.07
June 1, 2030 $8.88
 
      (6)   Service connection charges.
Water Line Size       Fee
1 inch service line   $1,500
1.5 inch service line $2,200
2 inch service line   $3,400
3 inch service line   $6,600
4 inch service line   $11,000
6 inch service line   $22,500
8 inch service line   $37,500
10 inch service line  $55,500
12 inch service line  $75,500
 
   (B)   Unmetered water service. Unmetered water service shall be available
only to users within the village presently not being served by a water meter at
the following monthly rate: single-family residence, $6.67 per month. The
payments of the flat rate for unmetered water service shall cover all
reasonable usage, but not any other usage which the President and Board of
Trustees determine to be unreasonable.
   (C)   Multiple users. A MULTIPLE USER is defined as any additional number of
family or commercial units located on the same premises being served through a
single water meter, such as cottages, apartment buildings, more than one
commercial unit in the same building or commercial and residential units
located in the same building.
   (D)   Left intentionally blank.
   (E)   Schools. The high school, middle school and grade school shall be
metered effective September 1, 1988.
   (F)   Swimming pools. In ground and above ground swimming pools requiring
health permits and/or with a capacity of more than 10,000 gallons or 1,348
cubic feet of water shall be metered and shall comply with the cross-connect
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1996-7, passed 3-4-96; Am. Ord. 1998-1,
passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 1999-4, passed 5-17-99; Am. Ord. 2000-22, passed - -00;
Am. Ord. 2005-33, passed 10-4-05; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 1-21-06; Am. Ord.
2005-38, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 2008-7A, passed 2-4-08; Am. Ord. 2010-21,
passed 12-7-10; Am. Ord. 2017-15, passed 6-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-6-
18; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19; Am. Ord. 2021-3, passed 1-19-21; Am. Ord.
2022-32, passed 12-20-22; Am. Ord. 2023-7, passed 3-21-23)
§ 53.67 BILL PAYMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The rates or charges for services shall be payable monthly on the twenty-
first day of the month succeeding the period for which service was supplied.
Payment made for any charge shall be effective only upon actual receipt by the
village of such payment during normal business hours. The owner of the premises
shall be ultimately responsible and liable to pay for the service on such
premises even if not owner occupied, regardless of whether the premises are
used for residential or commercial purposes and regardless of the terms of any
lease or other contract to which the village is not a party. Service is
provided to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of any premises to receive water services will assume full and final
responsibility for payment of all rates and charges of any kind due. All
billing for water services shall be mailed directly to the owner of the
premises, whether or not owner occupied.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1999-19, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2017-
15, passed 6-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-6-18; Am. Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-
20-22)
§ 53.68 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   All bills shall be paid at the Village Water Clerk’s office or at the
authorized collection agency. Bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to
the customer’s last known address, as shown by the record of the Department.
Failure to receive a bill shall not relieve the customer from the obligation to
pay.
   (B)   All bills for service shall be rendered monthly as of the first day of
the month succeeding the period for which the service is billed and shall be
payable not later than the close of business on the twenty-first day of the
same month. If payment of the full amount of the bill is not made by such date,
the bill shall be deemed delinquent.
   (C)   Should a customer fail to pay the bill on or before the date of
delinquency as defined in division (B) above, the bill will be due and payable
and shall include a penalty in the amount of 10% of the past due bill, plus any
disconnection fee or other fee applicable as set out in §
53.33.
   (D)   Any payment made for any charge shall be effective only upon actual
receipt of such payment by the village during normal business hours. If payment
is late, the Department may credit the amount received to the customer's
account and add the difference between the gross and net bill to the next bill.
   (E)   When the last day for payment of the net bill falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, the time for payment of the net bill shall be
automatically extended to include the next full business day.
   (F)   If a customer files a written objection to any bill prior to the
expiration of the discount date, the payment of the net bill within five days
after the customer has been notified of the necessary investigation will be
accepted as full payment.
   (G)   If, for any cause, a meter cannot be read for a period exceeding four
months, the Department may turn off the water upon mailed notice of its
intention to do so unless the customer provides access to the meter.
   (H)   All payments made after the date of delinquency as defined in division
(B) above must be submitted to the Village Water Clerk’s office in cash,
certified check, cashier's check or money order.
   (I)   (1)   Regarding past due commercial customer’s notice and termination
of service, if the bill of any commercial customer, as defined in §
53.01, shall remain unpaid for a period of 45 days after the date of billing,
the Village Water Clerk shall send to the water user and the property owner, if
different entities or persons, a “ten-day notice of termination” advising as
follows:
         (a)   Of the fact of delinquency;
         (b)   The amount past due, plus penalty;
         (c)   The fact that a lien pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8 may be
placed against the real estate;
         (d)   The fact that if not paid in full or if other payment
arrangements have not been made within ten days, the water service will be
terminated and in which case an additional $100 disconnect fee shall be
assessed.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. A copy of this notice shall be sent to all members of the Village
Board Public Works Committee.
      (3)   If at the end of the ten-day notice of termination period, the bill
remains unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall
prominently post on the subject premises a “24-hour notice of termination”
advising the occupants of the impending termination of services. If after the
expiration of 24 hours from the posting of the notice, the bill still remains
unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall disconnect
water service to the subject premises. Thereafter, the water service to the
premises shall not be reinstated unless and until the past due delinquent
amount is paid in full, plus any penalties and disconnection fees subject to
the availability of a hearing as set forth in §
51.099.
   (J)   (1)   Regarding past due single-family residential customer’s notice
of termination of service, if the bill of any single-family residential
customer, as defined in §
53.01, shall remain unpaid for a period of 15 days after the next monthly
billing, the Village Water Clerk shall send to the water user and property
owner, if different entities or persons, a “ten-day notice of termination”
advising as follows:
         (a)   Of the fact of delinquency;
         (b)   The amount past due, plus penalty;
         (c)   The fact that a lien pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8 may be
placed against the real estate;
         (d)   The fact that if not paid in full or if other payment
arrangements have not been made within ten days, the water service will be
terminated and in which case an additional $100 disconnect fee shall be
assessed.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. A copy of this notice shall be sent to all members of the Village
Board Public Works Committee.
      (3)   If at the end of the ten-day notice of termination period, the bill
remains unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall
prominently post on the subject premises a “24-hour notice of termination”
advising the occupants of the impending termination of services. If after the
expiration of 24 hours from the posting of the notice, the bill still remains
unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall disconnect
water service to the subject premises. Thereafter, the water service to the
premises shall not be reinstated unless and until the past due delinquent
amount is paid in full, plus any penalties and disconnection fees subject to
the availability of a hearing as set forth in §
51.099.
   (K)   (1)   Regarding current delinquent accounts notice of termination of
service, if the bill of any account that is delinquent as of the effective date
of Ord. 1998-17 remains unpaid 30 days after the effective date of the
ordinance, the Village Water Clerk shall send to the water user and property
owner, if different entities or persons, a “ten-day notice of termination”
advising as follows:
         (a)   Of the fact of delinquency;
         (b)   The amount past due, plus penalty;
         (c)   The fact that a lien pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-139-8 may be
placed against the real estate;
         (d)   The fact that if not paid in full or if other payment
arrangements have not been made within ten days, the water service will be
terminated, and in which case an additional $100 disconnect fee shall be
assessed.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. A copy of this notice shall be sent to all members of the Village
Board Public Works Committee.
      (3)   If at the end of the ten-day notice of termination period, the bill
remains unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall
prominently post on the subject premises a “24-hour notice of termination”
advising the occupants of the impending termination of services. If after the
expiration of 24 hours from the posting of the notice, the bill still remains
unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall disconnect
water service to the subject premises. Thereafter, the water service to the
premises shall not be reinstated unless and until the past due delinquent
amount is paid in full, plus any penalties and disconnection fees subject to
the availability of a hearing as set forth in §
51.099.
   (L)   (1)   Any customer with an account now past due or delinquent or that
becomes past due or delinquent in the future may avoid disconnection of
services and, where applicable, payment of delinquency penalties even if they
are unable to pay in full any past due amounts by entering into a repayment
agreement with the District. The Village Water Clerk is authorized to enter
into such a repayment agreement without prior consent of the Village Board if
the terms of repayment include payment in full by means of no more than three
monthly installment payments.
      (2)   Should a customer seek to enter into a repayment agreement
involving terms of repayment exceeding three months in duration, the Village
Water Clerk must bring the matter to the attention of the Village Public Works
Committee for decision as to the acceptance or refusal of the proposed terms of
repayment. If the proposal is submitted by the customer during the period
encompassed by any ten-day notice of termination, services to the customer will
not be disconnected during the time necessary for the matter to be brought
before the Public Works Committee for consideration and decision.
      (3)   If the Public Works Committee agrees to the proposed terms of
repayment, the Village Water Clerk shall, on behalf of the village, execute
such agreement and services shall continue.
      (4)   If the Public Works Committee refuses the proposed terms of
repayment, the customer shall be entitled to notices prior to disconnection of
services as set out and applicable in divisions (I), (J) and (K) above.
      (5)   If the Public Works Committee refuses the proposed terms of
repayment submitted by a customer during the period encompassed by the ten-day
notice of termination and at the time of decision the ten day time period has
expired, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall immediately
and prominently post on the subject premises a “24-hour notice of termination”
advising the occupants of the impending termination of services. If after the
expiration of 24 hours from the posting of the notice, the bill still remains
unpaid, the Director of Public Works or his or her agents shall disconnect
water service to the subject premises. Thereafter, the water service to the
premises shall not be reinstated unless and until the past due delinquent
amount is paid in full, plus any penalties and disconnection fees subject to
the availability of a hearing as set forth in §
51.099.
      (6)   After the posting of any 24-hour notice of termination and during
the 24-hour period, the customer may avoid disconnection only by payment in
full of all past due amounts plus any penalties.
   (M)   If any customer shall enter into a repayment agreement with the
village and thereafter default in making any or all required payments, the
village shall notify the members of the Public Works Committee and the Director
of the Department of Public Works of the fact of the default and the address of
the subject premises. Upon receipt of the notice of default, the Director of
Public Works or his or her agents shall prominently post on the subject
premises a “24-hour notice of termination” advising the occupants of the
impending termination of services. If after the expiration of 24 hours from the
posting the notice, the bill still remains unpaid, the Director of Public Works
or his or her agents shall disconnect water service to the subject premises
subject to the availability of a hearing as set forth in §
51.099. Thereafter, the water service to the premises shall not be reinstated
unless and until the past due delinquent amount is paid in full plus any
penalties and disconnection fees.
   (N)   The placement of the “24-hour notice of termination” as indicated in
divisions (I), (J), (K), (L) and (M) above shall only be performed by the
Director of Public Works or his or her agents during regular business hours on
Monday through Thursday of any given week. When the 24-hour notice of
termination period would expire on any legal holiday, the time for payment of
the bill, including penalties and disconnection fees, to avoid disconnection of
services shall automatically be extended to include the next full business day.
   (O)   All water and sewer bills are the responsibility of the legal or
equitable owners of the real estate or of any single-family condominium unit.
Pursuant to statutory authority, at any time after the bills become delinquent,
the village may, at its option, elect to place a lien upon the subject real
estate in the amount of the past due delinquent bill. As a part of the lien
costs which must be paid by the customer for release of the lien will be
included the reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in placing the lien.
   (P)   The village may, at its option, elect to pursue by civil action to
recover the monies due for past due amounts, including penalties and
disconnection fees, plus the reasonable attorney’s fees to be fixed by the
court.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 1998-17, passed 9-8-98; Am. Ord. 1999-
19, passed 11-15-99; Am. Ord. 2000-29, passed 1-2-01; Am. Ord. 2017-15, passed
6-6-17; Am. Ord. 2018-6, passed 3-6-18; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19; Am.
Ord. 2022-32, passed 12-20-22)
§ 53.69 ESTIMATED BILL.
   (A)   The quantity recorded by the meter shall be conclusive to both the
customer and the Department unless the meter is found to be registering
inaccurately or has ceased to register. In such cases, the quantity may be
determined by the registration of an accurate meter in corresponding past or
future period, whichever period is representative, in the Department’s
discretion, of the condition existing during the period of inaccuracy.
   (B)   When a meter cannot be read on a regular reading date, the Department
may render a bill based on previous meter readings. When the meter is
subsequently read, any differences between the estimated and actual consumption
will be adjusted.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.70 CATASTROPHIC FAILURE; ABATEMENT OF WATER BILL.
   (A)   The Village Board recognizes that in the event of a catastrophic
failure as defined in §
53.01, the water usage volume as reflected on the meter and the quarterly bill
may far exceed the actual customer usage. In such a situation the customer may,
by means of a written request filed with the Village Water Clerk, petition the
Village Board for a reduction or abatement in the amount billed for water
consumption.
   (B)   The Village Water Clerk upon receipt of a written customer request for
an abatement of a particular water bill shall schedule the matter for
consideration by the Village Board of Trustees at its next regularly scheduled
meeting and shall notify the customer filing the petition of the date and time
of the meeting.
   (C)   At the designated meeting the customer shall be given the opportunity
to address the Village Board, present any evidence, testimony or documentary in
support of the petition for abatement.
   (D)   If after consideration of all of the evidence presented the Village
Board of Trustees shall determine that the water bill in question is the result
in whole or in part of a catastrophic failure and not due to customer
negligence, the Board by majority vote may abate all or any portion of the
water bill in question.
   (E)   The decision of the Village Board as to whether or not to abate all or
any portion or the water bill is final and non-appealable.
   (F)   No customer shall be granted an abatement due to catastrophic failure
for a particular premises more than one time.
   (G)   The Village Water Clerk shall retain as a part of the village records
any and all written requests or petitions for abatement of water bills and
shall notify the Village Board of Trustees in the event any customer applies
for a second or subsequent abatement of water bill after having previously been
granted such an abatement with reference to an earlier petition.
(Am. Ord. 2000-22, passed - -00; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 53.71 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Use of fire hydrants by individuals or contractors is prohibited without
Department approval. Upon application and payment of a fee in the amount of $50
covering both hook-up and disconnect, the Department will install a two-inch
gate valve and meter for the use of any individual or contractor and the valve
and meter will be removed by the Department, at the direction of the individual
or contractor. The rate for water supplied from hydrants shall be at the
regular water rate, with a minimum charge of $15 per day.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2006-17, passed 11-6-06)
§ 53.72 FROZEN AND DAMAGED METER CHARGES.
   The expense of repairing a meter that has been damaged by hot water,
freezing or other means will be charged to the customer. The charge will be the
actual expense of repairing the damaged or frozen meter.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.73 COMPUTATION OF BILL SYSTEM.
   The rate and charges for water service, as herein specified, shall be used
in computing the gross bill. In the event the customer fails to pay the net
bill within the discount period, the gross bill will become due and payable.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.74 DUTY OF DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Department to render bills for water service and for
all rates and charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due
thereon.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.75 SEPARATION OF FUNDS.
   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the water system shall
be held by the Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds and shall be
reported not more than ten days after the receipt of the same or at more
frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.76 DUTY OF CLERK.
   The Village Water Clerk shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to the Clerk, and the Clerk shall timely deposit
the same in a separate fund designated as the “Water Fund of the Village of
Rockton,” and the Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the
manner provided by the provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88; Am. Ord. 2019-18, passed 9-3-19)
§ 53.77 DUTY OF TREASURER.
   The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks system and at
regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the waterworks system.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
§ 53.78 RECORDS, ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS.
   The village shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete entries shall be made of
all transactions relative to the water system and at regular intervals in the
village shall cause to be made an audit, by an independent auditing concern, of
the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the water system.
(Ord. 1988-3, passed 3-21-88)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and intent
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Applicability
   
54.04   Responsibility for administration
   
54.05   Severability
   
54.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
54.07   Discharge prohibitions
   
54.08   Suspension of MS4 access
   
54.09   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
54.10   Monitoring of discharges
   
54.11   Requirements to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
54.12   Watercourse protection
   
54.13   Notification of spills
   
54.14   Enforcement
   
54.15   Appeal of notice of violation
   
54.16   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
54.17   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
54.18   Injunctive relief
   
54.19   Alternatives to enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies
   
54.20   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
54.21   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the village through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system;
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENT. The Village of Rockton Director of Public
Works or his or her designees.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
one acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, that because of its quantity, concentration, physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of,
or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
54.07 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system, including but not
limited to, any conveyances that allow any non-stormwater discharge, including
sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain system, and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether the drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted or approved by the Authorized Enforcement Agent; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system, which has not been documented in plans,
maps or equivalent records, and has not been approved by an Authorized
Enforcement Agent.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT.  A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT.  Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel or portion of land, whether improved or
unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.  A document that describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site, and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the Authorized Enforcement Agent.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The village shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter through the Authorized Enforcement Agent. Any powers granted, or duties
imposed upon the Authorized Enforcement Agent may be delegated in writing by
the Authorized Enforcement Agent to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.05 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter, or the application
thereof to any person, establishment or circumstances, shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards. Therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.07 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses any materials other than
stormwater, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited, except as described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than one ppm chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the Authorized Enforcement
Agent as being necessary to protect public health and safety;
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the Authorized Enforcement Agent prior to the time of the test;
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger, and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.08 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.  
      (1)   The village may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when it is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge that
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to:
         (a)   The environment;
         (b)   The health or welfare of persons;
         (c)   The MS4; or
         (d)   The waters of the United States.
      (2)   If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in
an emergency, the Authorized Enforcement Agent may take such steps as deemed
necessary to:
         (a)   Prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United
States; or
         (b)   Minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge.
      (1)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated to abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
Authorized Enforcement Agent will notify a violator of the proposed termination
of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the Authorized Enforcement Agent
for a reconsideration and hearing.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
Authorized Enforcement Agent.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.09 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of that permit.
Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
village prior to allowing discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.10 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability.  This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The village shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities
subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures
in force that require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the Authorized Enforcement Agent.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the village ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
      (3)   The village shall have the right to set up on any permitted
facility such devices as are necessary, in the opinion of the Authorized
Enforcement Agent, to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s
stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The village has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring
equipment shall always be maintained in a safe and proper operating condition
by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater
flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village, and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the Authorized Enforcement Agent reasonable access to the permitted
facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by
this chapter.
      (7)   If the village has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and he or she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the Authorized Enforcement Agent may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.11 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The village will adopt requirements identifying best management practices
for any activity, operation or facility that may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of
the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm
drain system or watercourses, using these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at that
person’s expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.12. WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or that
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing, privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that they will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity
of the watercourse. For the purposes of this section, privately-owned
structures shall include, but not be limited to, culverts running under any
driveway allowing access to real property from a public or private roadway. A
culvert shall, at all times, remain the property of the property owner or
lessee who shall be responsible for its maintenance and repair. The property
owner or lessee shall keep both the upstream and downstream ends of the culvert
free from trash and debris or any other obstructions and shall mow or remove
any and all vegetation that would interfere with the free flow of surface water
as is runs through the watercourse across the property and along any drainage
passage and through the culvert or causes the flow of surface water in the
watercourse or along the drainage passage to slow or pool.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19; Am. Ord. 2022-18, passed 8-2-22) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.13. NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials that result in, or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.,
that person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment
and cleanup of the release. In the event of a release of hazardous materials,
that person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-
hazardous materials, that person shall notify the Authorized Enforcement Agent,
in person or by phone or facsimile, no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the village within three business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of the establishment shall also
retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three
years.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the village finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
Authorized Enforcement Agent may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analysis and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source-control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   Abatement and/or restoration of property. If abatement of a violation
and/or restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth
a deadline for its completion. The notice shall further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor, and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.15 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the Authorized Enforcement Agent to the corporate authorities of the village.
The notice of appeal must be received within seven days from the date of the
notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the corporate authorities of
the village, or its designee, shall take place within 15 days from the date of
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or its
designee shall be final.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.16 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within seven
days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision of the
Authorized Enforcement Agent, then representatives of the Authorized
Enforcement Agent shall enter upon the subject private property, and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.17 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 14 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within 14 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner, as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall become liable to the village by reason of the
violation. The liability shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments.
Interest at the rate of 4% per annum shall be assessed on the balance,
beginning on the date the village first incurs costs of abatement.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.18 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the Authorized
Enforcement Agent may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction,
restraining the person from activities that would create further violations, or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.19 ALTERNATIVES TO ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the Authorized Enforcement Agent may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.20 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator’s
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel the
cessation of the nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.21 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law. It is within the
discretion of the Authorized Enforcement Agent to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to the village to the fullest extent of the law and shall be subject to
a penalty of $750 per violation per day and/or any other penalty allowed by
law. The Authorized Enforcement Agent, or his or her designee, may recover all
attorney’s fees court costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of
this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 2019-5, passed 5-7-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   SNOWMOBILES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Exemptions
   
70.05   Through streets
   
70.06   One-way streets or alleys
   
70.07   Stop streets
   
70.08   Posting signs
   
70.09   Volunteer firefighters
   
70.10   Accidents
   
70.11   Towing cars away
   
70.12   Child passenger protection act
   
70.13   Failure to appear upon issuance of parking ticket notice
Equipment; Condition of Vehicle
   
70.25   Unnecessary noise
   
70.26   Gas and smoke
   
70.27   Tires
   
70.28   Weight
   
70.29   Driving unsafe vehicles prohibited
Vehicle Registration; Licenses
   
70.50   Operation of vehicles without evidence of registration
   
70.51   Operation of vehicle when registration canceled, suspended or revoked
   
70.52   Improper use of evidences of registration or certificate of title
   
70.53   Drivers must have licenses or permits
   
70.54   License and permits to be carried and exhibited on demand
   
70.55   Unlawful use of license or permit
   
70.56   Driving while license or permit suspended or revoked
   
70.57   Permitting unauthorized person to drive
   
70.58   Restricted licenses and permits
   
70.59   Classification of driver; special restrictions
   
70.60   Operation without certificate of safety attached; effective date of
certificate
Enforcement
   
70.99   Penalty
   
70.110   Administrative fees and procedures for impounding vehicles for
specified violations
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   There is adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations for pedestrians
and the operation of vehicles that certain code known as 625 ILCS, the Illinois
Vehicle Code, as has been, or may hereafter be, amended by the State of
Illinois, which Code has been and now is filed in the office of the Village
Clerk, and the same is adopted and represented as fully as if set out at length
herein and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the
village.
(Ord. 1994-16, passed 12-19-94)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or municipal officer employee in
response to an emergency call and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden, generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by tabliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MERGING TRAFFIC. A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on
converging roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction
thereof, wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his
or her vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any
other vehicles.
   METAL TIRES. Every tire the surface of which is in contact with the roadway,
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. A building used by the municipality, the county, any park
district, school district, the state or the United States government.
   SAFETY ZONE. That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY. When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left, provided that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement of vehicles and
parking of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency
vehicle when responding to an emergency call, but such driver upon approaching
a red or stop signal or stop sign shall slow down as necessary for safety but
may proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times
drivers authorized vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this title regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in
installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or street pavement.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.05 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by ordinance as
through streets are declared to be through streets. The driver of a vehicle
shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are approaching
so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless
directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.06 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one-way street or alley by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto and
shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions from the police officer shall be
complied with.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.08 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the President and
Board of Trustees shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all such
through streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.09 VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may
be equipped with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle, a flashing
blue light may be used only when such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.10 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage,
shall stop immediately and render such assistance as may be possible and to
give his or her true name and residence to the injured person or the owner of
the property damaged and to any other persons requesting the same on behalf of
the injured person and to a police officer if one is present. A report of each
such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to
the Chief of Police within 24 hours after the accident.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.11 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Any car or other vehicle parked on any of the designated streets
during the hours when parking thereon is prohibited may also be removed and
towed away as herein provided.
   (C)   Cars so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place
and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such car upon payment of
towing costs within 24 hours after the time such car was removed, plus $2 for
each additional 24 hours or fraction thereof that any vehicle is stored at the
village garage.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.12 CHILD PASSENGER PROTECTION ACT.
   The Child Passenger Protection Act, 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq., is hereby adopted
by reference as if set forth at length herein.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.13 FAILURE TO APPEAR UPON ISSUANCE OF PARKING TICKET NOTICE.
   (A)   Any person who, after given written notice that he or she is in
violation of any section or division of the code which pertains to parking,
fails to appear, plead guilty and waive right to a hearing or plead not guilty
and requests a hearing will be subject to the issuance of a warrant for his or
her arrest.
   (B)   Any such person so arrested by a warrant after failing to appear will
be allowed to post a bond in a sum equal to each individual parking violation
penalty, penalties for late payment, plus any other penalties as provided by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
**** EQUIPMENT; CONDITION OF VEHICLE ****
§ 70.25 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A) It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a vehicle by means of
squealing its tires, which results from a fast or accelerated start.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law or in violation of special weight limits provided for by
ordinance and sign posted.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property or which does not contain those parts or is not at all times
equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and adjustment
as required in this title or which is equipped in any manner in violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
**** VEHICLE REGISTRATION; LICENSES ****
§ 70.50 OPERATION OF VEHICLES WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF REGISTRATION.
   No person shall operate or shall an owner knowingly permit to be operated
upon any highway any vehicle required to be registered unless there shall be
attached thereto and displayed thereon when and as required a valid
registration plate or plates issued by the Secretary of State for the current
registration year.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.51 OPERATION OF VEHICLE WHEN REGISTRATION CANCELED, SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   No person shall operate, nor shall an owner knowingly permit to be operated,
upon any highway, a motor vehicle the registration of which has been canceled,
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.52 IMPROPER USE OF EVIDENCES OF REGISTRATION OR CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   No person shall lend to another any certificate of title, registration card,
registration plate, special plate or permit issued to him or her if the person
desiring to borrow the same would not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall
any person knowingly permit the use of any of the same by one not entitled
thereto, nor shall any person display upon a vehicle any registration card,
registration plate or permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise
lawfully used thereon.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.53 DRIVERS MUST HAVE LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   No person, except those expressly exempted, shall drive any motor vehicle
upon a street in this village unless such person has a valid license or permit
or a restricted driving permit.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.54 LICENSE AND PERMITS TO BE CARRIED AND EXHIBITED ON DEMAND.
   Every licensee or permittee shall have his or her driver's license or permit
in his or her immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle
and shall display such license or permit of it in his or her possession upon
demand made, when in uniform or displaying a badge or other sign of authority,
by a member of the Village Police Department. However, no person charged with
violating this section shall be convicted if he or she produces in court of law
or the office of the arresting officer satisfactory evidence that a driver's
license was theretofore issued to him or her and was valid at the time of his
or her arrest.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.55 UNLAWFUL USE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To display or cause to be displayed or have in his or her possession
any canceled, revoked, suspended, fictitious or fraudulently altered license or
permit;
   (B)   To lend his or her license or permit to any other person or knowingly
allow the use thereof by another;
   (C)   To display or represent as his or her own any license or permit not
issued to him or her.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE OR PERMIT SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle on any street of this
village at a time when his or her driver’s license or permit or privileges so
to do or his or her privilege to obtain a license or permit is revoked or
suspended, except as may be allowed by a restricted driving permit, shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 PERMITTING UNAUTHORIZED PERSON TO DRIVE.
   No person shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned
by him or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any highway by any
person who is not licensed to drive a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.58 RESTRICTED LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The Secretary of State upon issuing a driver’s license or permit shall
have the authority whenever good cause appears to impose restrictions suitable
to the licensee's driving ability with respect to the type of, or special
mechanical control devices required on, a motor vehicle which the licensee may
operate or such other restrictions applicable to the licensee as the Secretary
of State may determine to be appropriate to assure the safe operation of a
motor vehicle by the licensee.
   (B)   The Secretary of State may either issue a special restricted license
or permit or may set forth such restrictions upon the usual license or permit
form.
   (C)   The Secretary of State may, upon receiving satisfactory evidence of
any violation of the restrictions of such license or permit, suspend, revoke or
cancel the same without preliminary hearing, but the licensee or permittee
shall be entitled to a hearing as in the case of a suspension or revocation.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any manner
in violation of the restrictions imposed on a restricted license or permit
issued to him or her.
   (E)   The police officer issuing the citation shall confiscate the
restricted driving permit and forward it, along with the citation, to the clerk
of the circuit court of the county in which the citation was issued.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59 CLASSIFICATION OF DRIVER; SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A driver’s license issued under the authority of this act shall
indicate the classification for which the applicant therefor has qualified by
examination or by such other means that the Secretary of State shall prescribe;
driver’s license classifications shall be prescribed by rule or regulation
promulgated by the Secretary of State and such may specify classifications as
to operation of motor vehicles of the first division or of those of the second
division, whether operated singly or in lawful combination and whether for-hire
or not-for-hire and may specify such other classifications as the Secretary
deems necessary.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless such person has a valid
license with a proper classification to permit the operation of such vehicle,
except that any person may operate a motorized pedalcycle if such person has a
valid current Illinois driver’s license, regardless of classification.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.60 OPERATION WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF SAFETY ATTACHED; EFFECTIVE DATE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   No person shall operate a second division vehicle or medical transport
vehicle upon the highways of this state unless there is affixed to the second
division vehicle or medical transport vehicle a certificate of safety then in
effect. The Secretary of State, State Police and other police officers shall
enforce this section, and the Department shall determine the expiration date of
the certificate of safety.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whenever in this
code or in any ordinance of the city any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in such code or ordinance
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $750. Each day any violation of any provisions of
this code or ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the village any act is
declared to be a misdemeanor or the failure to do any act is declared to be a
misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of
any such provisions of this code or ordinance shall be punished by
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six months. Each day any violation of such provision of this code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 70.110 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDING VEHICLES FOR
SPECIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Imposition of administrative fee for certain offenses. An
administrative fee in the amount of $500 shall be imposed upon the registered
owner, or the agent of that owner, of any motor vehicle that has been properly
impounded at the direction and by the authority of the Police Department,
pursuant to the state statutes or village ordinances, in connection with any of
the following violations:
      (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/36-1; or
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-501; or
      (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, 720
ILCS 550/1 et seq.; or
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.; or
      (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5 or 24-3.1 of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 720 ILCS
5/24-1.5 or 720 ILCS 5/24-3;
      (6)   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to
seizure or impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or
moving) or due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
      (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/3 et seq., or the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS 570/102 et seq.; or
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-
101, if the period of expiration is greater than one year; or
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-101, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
      (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated § 6-101,§ 6-303, or § 11-501 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 625 ILCS 5/6-303 or 625 ILCS 5/11-501; or
      (11)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/Art. 16 or 720 ILCS
5/Art. 16A; or
      (12)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the Criminal Code of 1961 or Criminal Code of 2012, 720 ILCS 5, when so
provided by local ordinance; or
      (13)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of § 11-503 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-503:
         (a)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         (b)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   (B)   Payment and release from impound.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to impoundment under this section, the officer shall provide for the
towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized the by village.
      (2)   Motor vehicles impounded under this section shall remain impounded
until all costs associated with the towing and storage of the vehicle have been
paid to the private company towing and storing the vehicle; and
         (a)   The registered owner or registered owner's agent appears at the
Police Department and remits the $500; or
         (b)   The registered owner appears in person at the Police Department
and requests a hearing to contest the imposition of the $500 administrative
fee, post a $500 bond with the village, and signs the village’s notice
acknowledging receipt of the hearing date.
      (3)   Upon payment of the administrative fee or the registered owner’s
request for a hearing and posting of bond, the Police Department shall inform
the private towing company that the village is releasing its hold on the
vehicle. However, the private towing company shall have the right to hold the
vehicle until the costs associated with the towing and storage have been paid
in full or other arrangements for payment have been made in a manner consistent
with the company’s normal practices.
      (4)   Administrative fees imposed by this section shall be in addition
to:
         (a)   Any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of law for
the underlying violations; and
         (b)   Any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing
company.
   (C)   Required notice and scheduling of hearing.
      (1)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village will notify or make a
reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person found to be in
control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of the
seizure, of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative hearing,
and that the motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the completion of the
administrative hearing, unless $500 bond is posted to the village, and all
towing and storage charges are paid to the private towing company.
      (2)   Within ten days after the vehicle is impounded, the village shall
cause to be served upon the owner, lessee and any lienholder of record, either
by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's address,
as registered with the Secretary of State, a notice containing, at minimum, the
date, time and location of the administrative hearing. The initial hearing
shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after the date of the
mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (D)   Administrative review of impoundment.
      (1)   Any owner, lessee or lienholder of record is entitled to a hearing
on the basis for the vehicle impoundment, as set forth in this section. The
interested party, or his or her legal representative, may appear at the
administrative hearing and present evidence and testimony as to whether or not
there was a proper basis for impoundment as set forth in division (A) above, or
to present evidence and testimony that the vehicle was stolen at the time the
vehicle was impounded.
      (2)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted in the manner, and
under the procedures not conflicting with this section, as set forth in Chapter
35, Administrative Enforcement, of this code of ordinances.
         (a)   The village’s Administrative Hearing Officer shall preside over
the proceedings.
         (b)   The Hearing Officer will determine whether, by a preponderance
of the evidence, the vehicle seized and impounded was being used in violation
of one of the offenses set forth in division (A) above.
         (c)   Formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the administrative
hearing.
         (d)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment.
      (3)   Unless the Administrative Hearing Officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid. Any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the
vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality, and shall be applied towards
any unpaid portion of the administrative fee.
      (4)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law, 735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
   (E)   Retrieval of impounded vehicles after hearing.  Vehicles not retrieved
from the towing facility or storage facility within 35 days after the
Administrative Hearing Officer issues a written decision shall be deemed
abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Article II of
Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/Ch. 4 Art. II.
   (F)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty
or administrative fee imposed under this section that remains unpaid, in whole
or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review
under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (G)   Any administrative fee collected by the village pursuant to this
section shall primarily be utilized for the purchase and/or repair of Police
Department vehicles, but may also be utilized for other necessary Police
Department expenditures.
(Ord. 2015-17, passed 5-19-15)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Vehicles not to be driven on sidewalks or in safety zones
   
71.02   Careless driving
   
71.03   Negligent driving
   
71.04   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.05   Unattended animals
   
71.06   Riding on running boards
   
71.07   Restricted access
   
71.08   Trucks prohibited on certain streets and other areas
   
71.09   Designation of truck routes
   
71.10   Vehicle approaching highway construction or maintenance area
   
71.11   Obstructing view at corners
   
71.12   Minibikes
   
71.13   Skateboards, roller skates and other toy vehicles
   
71.14   Motorcycle vehicle width, length and weight
   
71.15   Permit for oversized motor vehicles
   
71.16   Operation of Rockton Police Department, Harlem-Roscoe Fire Protection
District and Rockton Fire Protection District non-highway vehicles on village
roadways
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
§ 71.01 VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS OR IN SAFETY ZONES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 71.02 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless or
wanton manner or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 NEGLIGENT DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in a
negligent manner over and along the public streets and highways of the city.
For the purpose of this section TO OPERATE IN A NEGLIGENT MANNER means the
operation of a vehicle upon the public streets and highways of this village in
such a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any persons or property.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 71.05 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 71.08 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS AND OTHER AREAS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor
vehicle with a weight, including load, in excess of that permitted by the state
traffic law for driving on improved highways, or with its weight distributed in
a manner not conforming to such law. It shall also be unlawful for trucks in
excess of 10,000 pounds parked in residential areas with no immediate business
in the area.
   (B)   Exceptions. It is unlawful to operate any vehicle in excess of 8,000
pounds, or any vehicle with a registered weight greater than 8,000 pounds
pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/3-815, on any street not
designated and posted as a truck route, subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   Vehicles not exceeding 80,000 pounds may be operated on streets
that are not designated as truck routes, for the purpose of making a pick up,
delivery, and/or to provide services, or successive pick ups, deliveries and/or
services, but not for purposes of peddling or soliciting, unless authorized by
the Village Board of Trustees; provided however, vehicles may only leave a
truck route to make pick ups, deliveries or to provide services by use of a
direct route from the point on the truck route closest to the pick up, delivery
or service location.
      (2)   When a vehicle making or providing successive pick ups, deliveries
and/or services on nontruck route(s) arrives at a truck route, such vehicle
must then utilize the truck route(s) until reaching the next point on a truck
route closest to the next delivery or service location.
   (C)   Exempt vehicles. The following vehicles are exempt from the provisions
of this section:
      (1)   Vehicles owned and operated by governmental agencies;
      (2)   Vehicles owned and operated by private utilities;
      (3)   Buses;
      (4)   Vehicles engaged in the collection and removal of garbage or
refuse;
      (5)   Snow removal vehicles engaged in snow removal functions on private
property or under contract with the village;
      (6)   Tow trucks;
      (7)   Implements of farming, agriculture or husbandry;
      (8)   Vehicles registered as recreational vehicles or recreational
trailers.
   (D)   Signage. As it is deemed appropriate and necessary by the Village
Board, and where it is in the interest of public welfare and safety, the
village may authorize the posting of signage reflecting the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   Penalty. Persons violating this section or failing to comply with any
of its provisions are subject to fines of not less than $25 nor more than $75
for each offense.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2008-2, passed 1-8-08; Am. Ord. 2014-1,
passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 2015-11, passed 3-3-15)
§ 71.09 DESIGNATION OF TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   All streets not designated as truck routes shall be designated
hereunder as residential streets.
   (B)   The following named streets shall be designated and posted truck
routes, in the directions indicated, for purposes of this code:
      (1)   Illinois Route 75 (a/k/a Blackhawk Boulevard), north and south;
      (2)   Union Street, east and west;
      (3)   Main Street, east and west, from the intersection of the street
easterly with Blackhawk Boulevard.
   (C)   All streets and highways owned, maintained or controlled by the State
of Illinois, or other political agency or body, shall not be controlled by the
provisions of this section, if it is in conflict with the rules or regulations
as set forth by that political body.
   (D)   Other streets may be designated and posted as truck routes by
resolution of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 1-8-08)
§ 71.10 VEHICLE APPROACHING HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE AREA.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any authorized
vehicle or pedestrian actually engaged in work upon a highway within any
highway construction or maintenance area indicated by official traffic-control
devices.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any authorized
vehicle obviously and actually engaged in work upon a highway whenever the
vehicle engaged in construction or maintenance work displays flashing lights.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 71.11 OBSTRUCTING VIEW AT CORNERS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain or permit to remain any fence
or other structure or any bushes or other plants on a corner lot within 50 feet
of the street line which obstructs the view at a height of more than 5 feet
above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 MINIBIKES.
   (A)   Operation on public ways. No person shall operate, nor shall an owner
knowingly permit to be operated upon any alley, roadway, street or highway
within the village, any minibike.
   (B)   Operation on private property. No person shall drive or operate any
minibike on private property without the written consent of the owner or lessee
thereof.
   (C)   Accident reports. The operators of any minibikes involved in a
collision, accident or other casualty shall notify the Police Department
immediately for a proper investigation report.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 71.13 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Traffic laws applying to persons riding. Traffic laws apply to all
persons riding skateboards, roller skates, coasters, roller blades, in-line
skates, bicycles and similar devices. Every person riding such devices upon a
roadway, sidewalk or designated bicycle path shall be granted all of the rights
and be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians by this title, as
amended, and by state law, except as to special regulations in this section and
except as to those provisions of this title and state law which by their nature
can have no application.
   (B)   Riding in areas zoned as Business Districts. No person shall operate a
skateboard, roller skates, coaster, roller blades, in-line skates, bicycle or
other similar device upon any sidewalk or village parking lot within the
Business District of the village zoned under the commercial section as defined
in the village zoning ordinance and delineated on the Official Zoning Map which
is attached to Ord. 1995-39 and which from time to time maybe amended, modified
or changed.
   (C)   Riding on public/private roadways and sidewalks.
      (1)   No persons shall operate skateboards, roller skates, coasters,
roller blades, in-line skates, bicycles or similar devices in a reckless manner
on any public street or public sidewalk. All persons riding such devices in
areas where they are not prohibited shall exercise due care at all times and
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrians using such sidewalk or street.
      (2)   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, coaster, roller
blades or in-line skates shall ride as near as possible to the left hand side
of the roadway and exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle. Persons
operating a bicycle shall operate it as near as possible to the right hand side
of the roadway and exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle.
      (3)   Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, coaster, roller
blades, in-line skates, bicycle or other similar devices when crossing a
roadway at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
      (4)   No person shall operate a skateboard, roller skates, coaster,
roller blades, in-line skates, bicycle or other similar device upon any private
street, parking lot, bicycle path or other area open to the public within the
village without the consent of the owner.
      (5)   No person shall operate a skateboard, roller skates, coaster,
roller blades, in-line skates, bicycle or other similar device between the
hours of sundown and sunrise unless the operator wears clothing with
reflectorized material thereon, and the device being operated has reflectorized
material attached to it. The reflectorized material must be visible from a
distance of not less than 100 feet when directly in front of lawful lower beams
of the head lamps on a motor vehicle. In addition, bicycles must have a head
lamp mounted on either the handle bars or front wheel post which illuminates
the roadway at least 500 feet in front of them.
      (6)   No person shall operate a skateboard, roller skates, coaster, in-
line skates, bicycle or other similar device without an approved helmet when
riding the device in any competition or while performing or practicing any
trick or stunt moves on either public or private property.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Rockton Police Department is empowered to enforce
this section upon passage.
   (E)   Penalty. Persons violating this section are subject to fines of not
less than $10 nor more than $750 for each offense. In addition, following the
third violation of this section by the same person the device used in the
violation of this section shall be impounded for a period of six months for
each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 1995-39, passed 8-21-95)
§ 71.14 MOTOR VEHICLE WIDTH, LENGTH AND WEIGHT.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven on any street, alley, roadway, or highway
under the jurisdiction of the village which exceeds: eight feet in width; or 72
feet in length; or 80,000 pounds, without first obtaining a permit from the
village or the village’s designated agent pursuant to §
71.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-14, passed 5-17-05; Am. Ord. 2015-11, passed 3-3-15)
§ 71.15 PERMIT FOR OVERSIZED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The village, with respect to any street, alley, roadway or highway
under its jurisdiction, may upon application on forms provided, issue a special
permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combinations
of vehicles of a size or weight exceeding the maximum specified in §
71.14 of this chapter. The permit shall specify general provisions that the
permittee must comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the
protection of the general public and the village streets, alleys, roadways and
highways.
   (B)   Single day permits. All vehicles of a size and/or wight exceeding the
maximum specified in §
71.14 traveling streets, alleys, roadways, or highways not designated as truck
routes shall obtain a single day permit. Each permit shall allow one round trip
over village streets, alleys, roadways, or highways under the restrictions and
conditions set forth by each permit issued by the village or its designated
agent. Each applicant for a single day permit shall, as part of applying for
said permit, propose the route which shall be traveled upon, subject to
approval by the village. The village may refuse to issue any such permit due to
excessive weight, width, or length or because a proposed route is an
inappropriate roadway.
   (C)   120-day permits. Notwithstanding division (B) above, an applicant may
apply for a 120-day permit. Owners of such a permit shall be exempt from the
daily fee and vehicles carrying such a permit shall be allowed to travel on
village streets, alleys, roadways, or highways for a period of time not to
exceed 120 days per permit per vehicle and under the restrictions and
conditions set forth by each such permit issued by the village or its
designated agent. Each applicant for a 120-day permit shall, as part of
applying for said permit, propose the route which may be traveled upon, subject
to approval by the village. The village may refuse to issue any such permit due
to excessive width or length or because a proposed route is an inappropriate
roadway. If any owner of a 120-day permit should, within the 120- days for
which the permit is valid, decide to vary from or change the route designated
in the permit, the owner of said permit shall notify the village or its
designated agent of such change and pay any required fee for such change. A
120-day permit shall not be issued to any vehicle in excess of 120,000 pounds.
   (D)   The fee rates for permits under this section are as follows:
Truck Dimensions Fee
Truck Dimensions                        Fee
Over 72 feet long                       $25
Over 8 feet 6 inches, but 12 feet or    $25
less wide
Over 12 feet wide                       $50
Over 73,280 pounds but less than 88,000 $25
pounds
Less than 100,000 pounds                $50
Less than 110,000 pounds                $75
Less than 120,000 pounds                $100
Greater than 120,000 pounds             $120 plus $10 for each additional
                                        10,000 pounds
120-day permit (not applicable to       $150 per truck
vehicles over 120,000 pounds)
When applicable, a police escort fee of $75 shall be added to the regular
permit fee. Over-length, over-width, and/or overweight fees will be added when
a vehicle is found to be in excess of more than one of these dimensions.
 
(Ord. 2005-14, passed 5-17-05; Am. Ord. 2015-27, passed 8-18-15)
§ 71.16 OPERATION OF ROCKTON POLICE DEPARTMENT, HARLEM-ROSCOE FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT AND ROCKTON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON VILLAGE
ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Non-highway vehicles of the Rockton Police Department and non-highway
vehicles of the Harlem-Roscoe Fire Protection District and Rockton Fire
Protection District (both fire districts being collectively referred to herein
as the "Districts") shall be permitted to operate on streets, highways and
roadways which are under village jurisdiction.
   (B)   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES shall mean those non-highway vehicles identified
in 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1 (i.e. all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, off-highway
motorcycles and recreational off-highway vehicles) which are owned and/or
operated by the Rockton Police Department or the Districts (respectively) and
utilized by the Rockton Police Department or the Districts in connection with
the police and fire services provided by the Rockton Police Department or
Districts, respectively. Such non-highway vehicles shall be subject to
conforming to the following:
      (1)   Any person operating a non-highway vehicle of the Rockton Police
Department or the Districts must have a valid driver's license.
      (2)   Any non-highway vehicle of the Rockton Police Department or the
Districts must, at a minimum, have the following: brakes, a steering apparatus,
tires, a slow-moving emblem (as required of other vehicles in the Illinois
Motor Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-709, a rearview mirror, headlights that emit
a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, tail lamps that
emit a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear, brake lights,
rearview and side mirrors and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, non-
highway vehicle of the Rockton Police Department and the Districts shall have
its headlight and tail lamps lighted.
      (3)   Any person operating a non-highway vehicle of the Rockton Police
Department or the Districts is subject to the mandatory insurance requirements
of 625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 10-17-17)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   General parking restrictions
   
72.02   Parking at curb
   
72.03   Loading zone
   
72.04   Alleys
   
72.05   Cab stands; bus stand
   
72.06   Time limit parking
   
72.07   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
72.08   Vehicles and/or merchandise for sale
   
72.09   Snow removal
   
72.10   Signs authorized
   
72.11   Obstruction
   
72.12   Parking, occupancy and storage of recreational vehicles
   
72.13   Parking of trailers
   
72.14   Handicapped parking
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon a bridge or viaduct or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approaching
side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign posted;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed 30 minutes, in
any place designated by the President and Board of Trustees as a loading zone
and marked as such or in any of the following designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (B)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such a condition as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 CAB STANDS; BUS STAND.
   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area
designated by ordinance as a cab stand, and no vehicle other than a bus shall
be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   Except on sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
a longer consecutive period of time than that designated between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. in any area designated as a limited parking area and so
marked.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 VEHICLES AND/OR MERCHANDISE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the village at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of two
inches or more has occurred.
   (B)   Any such vehicle that remains on any public street or portion thereof
shall be removed according to this code.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 SIGNS AUTHORIZED.
   The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the President and
Board of Trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or prohibitions where
required by statute.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 OBSTRUCTION.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING, OCCUPANCY AND STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition.  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES include, but are not limited to,
boats, snowmobiles, travel trailers, cargo trailers, campers, all-terrain
vehicles and motor homes. This also includes any vehicle licensed by the State
of Illinois as a recreational vehicle.
   (B)   Parking, occupancy and storage. No recreational vehicle may be parked,
occupied or stored on premises zoned for residential use, except as set forth
in this section.
      (1)   Residential zones. No person shall park or permit any other person
to park more than one recreational vehicle on premises in a residential zone,
with the exception that additional recreational vehicle(s) permitted so long as
they are stored within an enclosed building which conforms with zoning
requirements. A recreational vehicle may be parked outside in the side yard or
rear yard area and shall not be less than five feet from any side or rear lot
line. All recreational vehicles parked or stored outside shall be on a
delineated hard surface or gravel parking area. No recreational vehicle shall
be parked on a lawn or other non-hard surfaced or non-gravel area. Parking of a
recreational vehicle shall be permitted on a front driveway subject to the
terms and conditions set forth below. Except as otherwise provided for herein,
no person may park or permit any other person to park a recreational vehicle in
any required front yard or corner side yard on premises in a residential zone.
      (2)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for human/animal habitation
while parked or stored on any premises zoned for residential use, except in
licensed mobile home or recreational vehicle parks.
      (3)   Any recreational vehicle unit so equipped, may be occupied or used
for sleeping purposes only (cooking is not permitted) by friends or relatives
on land owned by or leased to the host person for a maximum period not to
exceed 14 days in any one calendar year, provided that the recreational vehicle
unit shall not be connected to any utility, other than temporary electrical
hookups, and provided further that the facilities shall comply with applicable
Illinois law and Winnebago County Electrical Codes. No recreational vehicle
units shall discharge any litter, sewage, effluent or other matter.
      (4)   No recreational vehicle parking or storage is permitted in
designated easements.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles are not permitted to be parked on the
driveway except that a seasonal allowance for parking only a) one camping
trailer, motor home, mini motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, van camper,
or boat; or b) two jet skis or all-terrain vehicles provided they are one
trailer, is permitted from April 15 to October 15. Two snowmobiles provided
they are on one trailer is permitted from October 15 to March 15.
      (6)   No recreational vehicle equipment shall be stored outdoors on a
residential premises unless it is in a condition for safe and effective
performance of the function for which it is intended or can be made so at a
cost exceeding the value of the equipment in its existing state.
      (7)   Any recreational vehicle parked in the driveway shall not impede
the sidewalk or cause a safety hazard for traffic.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 89-1, passed 3-6-89; Am. Ord. 2007-1, passed
1-16-07; Am. Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-7-24) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING OF TRAILERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked at
any time upon any public right-of-way within the village any trailer regardless
of whether attached or unattached to a vehicle, tractor or power unit.
   (B)   Exceptions: The requirements of this section shall not apply to
trailers parked within the village public right-of-ways for the limited purpose
of expeditiously delivering or collecting persons, materials or merchandise or
which are used in connection with the performance of some service to the
resident adjacent to the public right-of-way on which the trailer is being
parked. This exception is only applicable for the time necessary to reasonably
and expeditiously load, unload, and perform such services and shall not allow
for the parking of trailers overnight.
(Ord. 2004-27, passed 11-3-04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-159.1, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 625 ILCS 5/11-
1301.1 or 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2, or to a veteran with a disability pursuant to
625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a person
with disabilities or a veteran with a disability, in any parking place,
including any private or public off-street parking facility, specifically
reserved, by the posting of an official sign as designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-
301,for motor vehicles displaying such registration plates. It shall be
prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a designated access aisle adjacent to
any parking place specifically reserved for persons with disabilities, by the
posting of an official sign as designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor
vehicles displaying such registration plates. When using the parking privileges
for persons with disabilities, the parking decal or device must be displayed
properly in the vehicle where it is clearly visible to law enforcement
personnel, either hanging from the rearview mirror or placed on the dashboard
of the vehicle in clear view. Disability license plates and parking decals and
devices are not transferable from person to person. Proper usage of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device requires the authorized
holder to be present and enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking
privileges are being used. It is a violation of this section to park in a space
reserved for a person with disabilities if the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device does not enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. Any motor vehicle
properly displaying a disability license plate or a parking decal or device
containing the International symbol of access issued to persons with
disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or foreign
country shall be recognized by the village as a valid license plate or device
and receive the same parking privileges as residents of this state.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
72.99, any person found guilty of violating a provision of this section shall
be subject to the fine of $250 as well as any other sanctions authorized by
law.
   (C)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(Ord. 2017-29, passed 10-17-17)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person who violates or fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined the amount of $25 for each such
offense unless that person had previously received a parking ticket in the
village within 12 months of receipt of the most recent ticket, in which case
the fine for each subsequent violation shall be $35.
   (B)   If, within 14 days, any person accused of a parking violation under
this chapter fails to pay their fine, or fails to send notice to the village
stating their intent to contest the violation, then, on the 15th day, the
applicable fine shall be doubled from the original fine amount.
   (C)   The owner or driver of any vehicle which is parked or permitted to
stand in violation of the provisions of this chapter may avoid prosecution for
violating the same by paying at the police station
the sums set forth in the notice of violation, and by surrendering to the
Police Department the traffic ticket delivered to him or her or placed upon the
vehicle after indicating thereon his or her name, address and date. The Police
Department shall give the person paying such sum a receipt therefor, bearing
the officer’s signature and date of payment.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2002-19, passed 9-17-02; Am. Ord. 2012-3,
passed 2-21-12)
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Application and jurisdiction
   
73.03   Enforcement; prohibitions
   
73.04   Equipment
   
73.05   General operation
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COWLING. The forward portions of a snowmobile enclosing motor and clutch
assembly.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant substance in
the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, and cannabis, as defined in the Cannabis
Control Act.
   DEALER. A person, partnership or corporation engaged in the business of
manufacturing, selling or leasing snowmobiles at wholesale or retail.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of a highway, road,
street, avenue, alley or public driveway.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any beverage specific in the Liquor Control Act.
   MARKS. Any visual signs or barricades designating the boundaries of any or
all restricted areas.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is under
way.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having title to a snowmobile. The
term includes a person entitled to the use or possession of a snowmobile
subject to an interest in another person, reserved or created by agreement and
securing payment or performance of an obligation. The term excludes a lessee
under a lease not intended as security.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association or other
entity.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, but not including the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used in
this chapter refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   ROUTES. Streets, roads or highways designated and approved by the Chief of
Police as snowmobile routes to and from the village.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow, ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95)
§ 73.02 APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   The Police Department shall, for purposes of this chapter, have the power,
duty and authority to administer and enforce all statutes, rules and
regulations, except as otherwise provided by statute, relating to the operation
and use of snowmobiles within the village.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95)
§ 73.03 ENFORCEMENT; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement. It is the duty of all police officers to arrest any
person detected in violation of any of the provision of this chapter. It is
further the duty of all officers to promptly investigate any reported
violations of the provisions of this chapter, and to cause a complaint to be
filed before a court of competent jurisdiction if there seems to be just
grounds for such complaint and evidence procurable to support the same.
   (B)   Resistance to officer.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any officer or
employee of the village in the discharge of their duties under this chapter.
      (2)   No person operating a snowmobile shall refuse to stop after being
requested or signaled to do so by a law enforcement officer or employee of the
village.
   (C)   False representation. It is unlawful for any person to represent
themselves as an officer or employee of the village or to assume to act as such
without having been duly appointed and employed as such.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95)
§ 73.04 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All snowmobiles operating within the village shall be equipped with:
      (1)   At least one white headlamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions;
      (2)   At least one red taillamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions;
      (3)   A brake system in good mechanical condition;
      (4)   Reflective material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted
on one side of the cowling. Identifying numbers may be included in computing
the required 16 square inches;
      (5)   Adequate sound suppression equipment. No snowmobile manufactured
after June 1, 1972, shall be sold or offered for sale unless it is equipped
with sound suppression devices that limit total machine noise in accordance
with noise pollution standards pursuant to the Environmental Protection Act. No
snowmobile shall be modified by any person in any manner that shall amplify or
otherwise increase total noise emission above that emitted by the original
construction, regardless of date of manufacture.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale in this village any snowmobile
which fails to comply with division (A), or which does not comply with the
specifications for such equipment required by rules and regulations of the
village after the effective date of such rules and regulations.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95)
§ 73.05 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The Illinois Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act (625 ILCS 40/1 et seq.)
is hereby adopted by reference as if set forth at length herein.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violators of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $750 for each occurrence.
   (B)   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid. This chapter shall take affect and be in force ten days
after passage and publication in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 1995-3, passed 2-20-95)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Stop streets
      
II.   Two-way stops
      
III.   Three-way stops
      
IV.   Four-way stops
      
V.   Yield streets
      
VI.   Placement of stop signs in the Kensington and Wingate Subdivisions
SCHEDULE I. STOP STREETS.
   In accordance with the provisions of this code, and when properly
signposted, the following streets or parts of streets are stop streets as
designated.
Street Stop For
Street              Stop For
Adams Street        Blackhawk Boulevard
Aldrin Road         Dewey Road
Aspland Drive       Beulah Drive
Bleecher Street     Union Street
Bridge Street       Blackhawk Boulevard
Bridge Street       E. Main Street
Bunn Drive          Union Street
Central Drive       Hwy. #75
Chapel Street       Grove Street
Chapel Street       West Street
Cork Road           Armstrong Avenue
Dewey Road          Armstrong Avenue
Dewey Road          E. Main Street
Dingman Drive       Blackhawk Boulevard
Dingman Street      Blackhawk Boulevard
Dixie Trail         Deacon Drive
Dixie Trail         Tar Heel Trail
Echo Drive          Armstrong Avenue
Glengary Drive      Glenmore Road
Green Street        E. Main Street
Grove Street        Race Street
Hawick Street       Blackhawk Boulevard
High School Drive   E. Main Street
Hwy. #75            Hwy. #2
Kocher Street       Blackhawk Boulevard
Liddle Street       Union Street
Mary Drive          Pheon Drive
Meadow Crest Drive  Yale Drive
Mechanic Street     Grove Street
Mechanic Street     Salem Street
Nazarene Drive      Union Street
Old River Road      Carlson Court
Old River Road      University Parkway
Old River Road      Wake Forest Parkway
Race Street         Union Street
Russell Street      Blackhawk Boulevard
S. Bridge Street    Russell Street
S. Ferry Street     Russell Street
S. Green Street     East Main Street
Salem Street        E. Main Street
Sandpebble Drive    Armstrong Avenue
Sandpebble Drive    Echo Drive
School Street       Blackhawk Boulevard
Torch Pine Drive    Fernridge Drive
Torch Pine Drive    Woodlock Forest Drive
University Parkway  College Court
University Parkway  Deacon Drive
University Parkway  Dixie Trail
University Parkway  Tar Heel Trail
University Parkway  Wake Forest Parkway
Wagon Wheel Lane    Blackhawk Boulevard
Wake Forest Parkway Deacon Drive
Washington Street   Blackhawk Boulevard
West Street         Race Street
Williamson Parkway  Wagon Wheel Road
 
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2001-8, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2003-16,
passed 8-19-03; Am. Ord. 2004-25, passed 11-3-04; Am. Ord. 2004-28, passed 11-
3-04; Am. Ord. 2007-21, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2007-22, passed 7-10-07; Am.
Ord. 2025-4, passed 3-4-25)
SCHEDULE II. TWO-WAY STOPS.
Street Stop For
Street               Stop For
Bleecher Street      Franklin Street
Bridge Street        Chapel Street
Center Street        Union Street
Chapel Street        Blackhawk Blvd.
Chapel Street        Prairie Street
Chapel Street        Center Street
Colebrook Place      Williamson Parkway
Cottage Street       Union Street
E. Mechanic Street   Green Street
Ferry Street         Chapel Street
Franklin Street      Blackhawk Blvd.
Franklin Street      Prairie Street
Franklin Street      Center Street
Green Street         Blackhawk Blvd.
Grove Street         Union Street
Hawick Street        Prairie Street
Mechanic Street      Blackhawk Blvd.
Mechanic Street      Prairie Street
Mechanic Street      Center Street
Prairie Street       Main Street
River Street         South Blackhawk Blvd.
Rockton Street       Prairie Street
Salem Street         Adams Street
Union Street         Blackhawk Blvd.
Warren Street        Blackhawk Blvd.
Warren Street        Center Street
Warren Street        Washington Street
West Franklin Street Cottage Street
West Street          Union Street
 
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1999- , passed 9-20-99; Am. Ord. 2006-9,
passed 7-18-06; Am. Ord. 2017-24, passed 10-3-17; Am. Ord. 2023-22, passed 8-
19-23)
SCHEDULE III. THREE-WAY STOPS.
 
Street                              Stop For
Glen Echo Way                       Quail Trail
Hawick, Race and Center             West Main Street
Quail Trail                         Glen Echo Way
School Street and West River Street Trading Post Trail
 
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1997-14, passed 9-15-97; Am. Ord. 2008-7B,
passed 3-25-08)
SCHEDULE IV. FOUR-WAY STOPS.
 
Intersection                        All Around Stop
Autumnwood Drive and Pinecroft Lane Four-way
Green Street and E. Chapel Street   Four-way
Main Street and Blackhawk Blvd.     Four-way
Salem Street and Adams Street       Four-way
 
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1997-6, passed 7-21-97; Am. Ord. 1997-13,
passed 9-15-97; Am. Ord. 2006-9, passed 7-18-06)
SCHEDULE V. YIELD STREETS.
   In accordance with the provisions of this code, and when property
signposted, the following streets or parts of streets are yield streets as
designated.
Street Yield For
Street              Yield For
Aspland Drive       Baumgartner Trail
Chapel Street       Cottage Street
Edenberry Lane      Quail Trail
E. Mechanic Street  Bridge Street
E. Franklin Street  N. Ferry Street
E. Franklin Street  Green Street
E. Warren Street    Kocher Street
Moloney Drive       Baumgartner Trail
Shore Lane          Prairie Avenue
University Parkway  River Hills Parkway
University Parkway  Tiger Trail
Wake Forest Parkway Carolina Court
Wake Forest Parkway Clemson Court
Wake Forest Parkway Terrapin Trail
 
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2000-28, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 2001-7,
passed - -; Am. Ord. 2004-25, passed 11-3-04; Am. Ord. 2004-28, passed 11-3-04;
Am. Ord. 2014-15, passed 5-21-14; Am. Ord. 2017-24, passed 10-3-17)
SCHEDULE VI. PLACEMENT OF STOP SIGNS IN THE KENSINGTON AND WINGATE
SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Wingate Subdivision. All vehicular traffic traveling within the
Wingate Subdivision shall stop at the various intersections contained therein
as designated below:
      (1)   When traveling in any direction at the intersection of Wynstone Way
and Edge Rock Road;
      (2)   When traveling westbound on Edge Rock Road at the intersection with
Meadow Crest Drive;
      (3)   When traveling westbound on Winfield Court at the intersection with
Wynstone Way;
      (4)   When traveling southbound on Wingate Place at the intersection with
Edge Rock Road;
      (5)   When traveling northbound on Wynstone Way at the intersection with
Broadmoor Road;
      (6)   When traveling northbound on Bayfield Road at the intersection with
Broadmoor Road;
      (7)   When traveling northbound on Wingate Place at the intersection with
Broadmoor Road;
      (8)   When traveling northbound on Meadow Crest Drive at the intersection
with Wyndham Lane;
      (9)   When traveling northbound on Pin Oak Road at the intersection with
Wyndham Lane.
   (B)   Kensington Subdivision. All vehicular traffic traveling within the
Kensington Subdivision shall stop at the various intersections contained
therein as designated below:
      (1)   When traveling southbound on Huntington Chase at the intersection
with Kensington Way;
      (2)   When traveling westbound on Berkshire Way at the intersection with
Huntington Chase;
      (3)   When traveling northbound on Portsmough Lane at the intersection
with Kensington Way;
      (4)   When traveling southbound on Glencree Lane at the intersection with
Kensington Way;
      (5)   When traveling in any direction at the intersection of Berkshire
Way and Glencree Lane;
      (6)   When traveling westbound on Berkshire Way at the intersection with
Huntington Chase;
      (7)   When traveling either northbound or southbound on Stamford Lane at
the intersection with Kensington Way;
      (8)   When traveling northbound on Stamford Lane at the intersection with
Stonegate Drive;
      (9)   When traveling either westbound or eastbound on Stonegate Drive at
the intersection with Huntington Chase;
      (10)   When traveling in any direction at the intersection of Glenmore
Road and Wynstone Way;
      (11)   When traveling westbound on Glenmore Road at the intersection with
Glencree Lane.
   (C)   Placement of signs. The Village Department of Public Works shall be
responsible for erecting stop signs as designated above at the various street
intersections within both the Wingate and Kensington Subdivisions.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this schedule, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $75 and no more than $750.
(Ord. 2000-8, passed 4-3-00)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
      
II.   Time limit parking
      
III.   Parking permitted
      
IV.   Left intentionally blank
      
V.   Rockton boat ramp parking lot
      
VI.   Village Hall parking lot
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with a police officer or traffic-control device, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to stop, stand or park any motor
vehicle on either the east or west side of Illinois Route 75 (i.e., North
Blackhawk Boulevard) from the north end of the Rock River Bridge to Illinois
Route 2, except that parking shall be allowed along the east side of Illinois
Route 75 between East Chapel Street and East Union Street and the single
accessible parking stall on the east side of Illinois Route 75 just north of
Union Street. Notwithstanding the penalties set forth in §
72.99 of the Village Code, any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this division (A) shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than
$750 for each offense, with each day the violation exists constituting a
separate offense.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle on either the north or south sides of
East Union Street extending from Green Street easterly to the intersection of
Highway 2, where it is prohibited by signs or markings.
   (C)   No person shall park any vehicle on the west side of Kocher Street
between E. Union Street and E. Franklin Street. No person shall park any
vehicle on the east side of Kocher Street between E. Union Street and E.
Franklin Street between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday. No person shall park any vehicle on the west side of Kocher Street
between E. Franklin Street and E. Warren Street.
   (D)   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon the north side of Mechanic
Street for a distance of 75 feet westerly from the northwest corner of the
intersection of Mechanic Street and Blackhawk Boulevard.
   (E)   No person shall park their vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation or in compliance with
the lawful directions of a police officer, along Union Street between Blackhawk
Boulevard and Kocher Street, except as follows.
      (1)   Blackhawk Boulevard to Green Street. There shall be no parking
permitted at any time on either side of Union Street, except parking will be
permitted on both the north and south sides of the street during the hours of
church services. CHURCH SERVICES for the purposes of this division (E) shall be
defined to include the hours of Sunday morning worship services and also the
hours relating to wedding and funeral services. Wedding and funeral services
shall qualify as CHURCH SERVICES for the purposes of this division (E) if, and
only if, at least 24 hours advance notice is provided to the Village Police
Department of the date and hours of such services. The notice may be provided
by any individual, including church personnel, involved in the wedding or
funeral services.
      (2)   Green Street to Bridge Street. There shall be no parking permitted
at any time on the south side of Union Street. Parking is permitted along the
north side of Union Street.
      (3)   Bridge Street to Salem Street. There shall be no parking permitted
at any time on the north side of Union Street. Parking is permitted along the
south side of Union Street.
      (4)   Salem Street to Kocher Street. There shall be no parking permitted
at any time on the south side of Union Street. Parking is permitted along the
north side of Union Street, except where is prohibited by signs and markings.
   (F)   (1)   No vehicle shall be parked at any time along any of the
following locations:
         (a)   Left intentionally blank;
         (b)   The south side of Union Street between Bridge Street and Ferry
Street;
         (c)   The south side of Union Street between Salem Street and Bleecher
Street (extended);
         (d)   Both sides of Union Street between Kocher Street and Highway 2;
         (e)   Both sides of Union Street within 40 feet of its intersection
with Blackhawk Boulevard;
         (f)   The south side of Union Street between Bleecher Street
(extended) and Liddle Street in those areas designated and identified as “no
parking” by the Village Public Works Director.
      (2)   In the event any road identified herein does not exist on both
sides of Union Street, the parking shall be prohibited from the point where
that road would cross Union Street if it was extended and the prohibited
parking would include the entire intersection of the road as if extended.
      (3)   The Village Department of Public Works shall purchase and erect no
parking signs along Union Street, consistent with the restrictions set forth in
this division.
   (G)   No person shall park, unless for official insurance company business,
in the five spaces posted “Insurance Company Parking Only During Business
Hours,” located on the east side of South Green Street.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1998-16, passed 8-3-98; Am. Ord. 2002-7,
passed 7-2-02; Am. Ord. 2007-21, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2016-24, passed 10-4-
16; Am. Ord. 2017-22, passed 9-5-17; Am. Ord. 2022-3, passed 4-19-22; Am. Ord.
2022-9, passed 6-7-22; Am. Ord. 2022-14, passed 7-5-22) Penalty, see §
72.99 
2023 S-15
SCHEDULE II. TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device on the south side of Chapel Street
between Salem and Ferry Streets from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on days when school
is in session.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device on either side of Salem Street between
Union and Chapel Street from 7:00 am to 3:30 p.m. on days when school is in
session.
   (C)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than 180 minutes at any time
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day except Sundays and
public holidays, upon any of the streets or parts of streets thereof, provided
that this section shall not be construed to permit 180-minute parking upon any
of the streets or parts of the streets thereof where parking is prohibited by
any other ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall park longer than five minutes in the marked area
directly in front of the U.S. Post Office of West Main Street.
   (E)   No person shall park a vehicle on Main Street between Center Street
and Green Street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., and on Prairie
Avenue between Mechanic Street and Hawick Street between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m.
   (F)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation or in
compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer or traffic- control
device, for a period in excess of two hours on the north side of Chapel Street
between Bridge and Ferry Streets and the east side of Ferry Street between
Chapel and Mechanic Streets.
   (G)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation or in
compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer or traffic- control
device, during regular school hours which shall not include any evening
activities at any of the school property owned by the Hononegah School
District, anywhere on either side of the following designated streets and
areas:
      (1)   East Franklin Street from Kocher to Bridge Streets;
      (2)   East Warren Street from Kocher to Bridge Streets;
      (3)   Ferry Street from East Franklin to East Warren Streets;
      (4)   Salem Street from East Franklin to East Warren Streets;
      (5)   Bleecher Street from East Franklin to East Warren Streets; and
      (6)   Liddle Street from East Union to East Franklin Streets.
   (H)   (1)   During regular school hours no person shall park their vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency
situation or in compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer,
along North Bridge Street from East Main Street to East Franklin Street within
the village.
      (2)   During regular school hours no person shall park their vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency
situation or in compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer,
along East Mechanic Street from North Bridge Street to North Ferry Street
within the village.
      (3)   REGULAR SCHOOL HOURS shall encompass any and all daytime hours,
Monday through Friday, that all or any portion of the Hononegah School District
is in session. Regular school hours shall not include any evening activities at
any of the school property owned by the Hononegah School District.
   (I)   (1)   Continuous parking on Prairie Street on both the east and west
sides of the street running one-half block north and also one-half block south
of the intersection of Prairie Street and Main Street within the village shall
be restricted to three hours. No person shall park their vehicle on either the
east or west sides of Prairie Street within the designated limited parking
areas for more then three consecutive hours.
      (2)   The Department of Public Works shall be responsible for purchasing
and erecting signs along Prairie Street both on the east and west sides of the
streets and north and south of the intersection of Prairie Street and Main
Street within the village which shall, consistent with the restrictions set out
in subsection (I)(1) above, designate those parking sites which are subject to
this three hour restriction.
   (J)   (1)   No person shall park their vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation or in compliance
with the lawful directions of a police officer, along either side of Union
Street east of the intersection at Blackhawk Boulevard to the intersection at
Highway 2 during regular school hours, which shall not include any evening
activities at any of the school property owned by the Hononegah School
District, except parking will be permitted on both the north and south sides of
Union Street between Blackhawk Boulevard and Green Street during special church
services. SPECIAL CHURCH SERVICES for the purposes of this section shall be
defined to include any hours relating to wedding and funeral services. Wedding
and funeral services shall qualify as special church services for the purpose
of this section if, and only if, at least 24 hours' advance notice is provided
to the Village Police Department of the date and hours of such services. Such
notice may be provided by any individual, including church personnel involved
in the wedding or funeral services.
      (2)   No person shall park their vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation, or in compliance with
the lawful directions of a police officer at any time along either side of
Union Street from its intersection with Kocher Street to the intersection with
Highway 2.
      (3)   No person shall park their vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, in an emergency situation or in compliance with
the lawful directions of a police officer, at any time along either side of
Union Street within the first 100 feet of its intersection with Blackhawk
Boulevard.
   (K)   (1)   During regular school hours no person shall park their vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency
situation or in compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer along
Chapel Street from Green Street to Bridge Street.
      (2)   During regular school hours no person shall park their vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency
situation or in compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer,
along Mechanic Street from Bridge Street to Blackhawk Boulevard.
      (3)   During regular school hours no person shall park their vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in an emergency
situation or in compliance with the lawful directions of a police officer,
along Green Street from Chapel Street to Main Street.
      (4)   REGULAR SCHOOL HOURS shall encompass any and all daytime hours,
Monday through Friday, that all or any portion of the Hononegah School District
is in session. Regular school hours shall not include any evening activities at
any of the school property owned by the Hononegah School District.
   (L)   (1)   Continuous parking on Main Street on both the north and south
sides of the street within the village shall be restricted to three hours. No
person shall park their vehicle on either the north or south sides of Main
Street within the designated limited parking areas for more than three
consecutive hours during the daytime hours of 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   Continuous parking on Prairie Street on both the east and west
sides of the street running one-half block north and one-half block south of
the intersection of Prairie Street and Main Street within the village shall be
restricted to three hours. No person shall park their vehicle on either the
east or west sides of Prairie Street within the designated limited parking
areas for more than three consecutive hours during the daytime hours of 6:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
   (M)   (1)   No vehicle shall be parked during school days between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. along any of the following locations: the area of
Salem Street from Franklin Street, north to Warren Street.
         (2)   The Village Department of Public Works shall purchase and erect
parking signs along Salem Street and Chapel Street which read “No Parking on
school days between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.,” consistent with the
restrictions set forth in this division.
   (N)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours during
business hours in the nine parking spaces posted “Two Hour Parking During
Business Hours,” located on the east side of South Green Street.
   (O)   No person shall park a vehicle longer than three hours at the five
spaces north of the existing limited use parking spaces on Green Street.
   (P)   No person shall park a vehicle for a period of time in excess of three
consecutive hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day
except Sundays and public holidays, upon either side of Hawick Street between
Blackhawk Street and Green Street. No person shall park a vehicle upon either
side of Hawick Street between Blackhawk Street and Green Street between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-15-97; Am. Ord. 1997-22,
passed 12-15-97; Am. Ord. 1998-26, passed 11-12-98; Am. Ord. 1999-3, passed 4-
19-99; Am. Ord. 1999-15, passed 9-19-99; Am. Ord. 1999-16, passed 10-4-99; Am.
Ord. 1999-17, passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. 2002-8, passed 10-8-02; Am. Ord. 2006-
22, passed 12-5-06; Am. Ord. 2007-21, passed 6-19-07; Am. Ord. 2009-12, passed
6-2-09; Am. Ord. 2017-22, passed 9-5-17) Penalty, see §
72.99
2018 S-11
SCHEDULE III. PARKING PERMITTED.
   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be permitted to park on either
side of Main Street from Green Street to Bridge Street, and on Union Street
between Blackhawk Boulevard and Grove Street. Parking in this area shall be
parallel parking only, diagonal parking being expressly prohibited; such
parallel parking shall be so executed that the wheels of the vehicles nearest
the curb shall be not farther away from the curb than 12 inches.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE IV. LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK.
SCHEDULE V. ROCKTON BOAT RAMP PARKING LOT.
   (A)   During regular school hours, parking at the Rockton boat ramp parking
lot shall be allowed by parking permit only.
      (1)    For purposes of this schedule, regular school hours shall be
defined as follows: regular school hours shall encompass any and all daytime
hours, Monday through Friday, that all or any portion of the Hononegah School
District is in session. Regular school hours shall not include any evening
activities at any of the school property owned by the Hononegah School
District.
   (B)   The village shall offer for sale, 40 parking permits to the Rockton
boat ramp parking lot for students of the Hononegah School District. The fee
for such parking permit shall be $50 per year.
   (C)   During regular school hours, no students of the Hononegah School
District shall park in parking stalls marked as "No Student Parking" at the
Rockton boat ramp parking lot.
   (D)   Persons violating this schedule or failing to comply with any of its
provisions are subject to fines of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense.
(Ord. 2017-20, passed 8-15-17)
SCHEDULE VI. VILLAGE HALL PARKING LOT.
   (A)   Parking at the Village Hall parking lot is limited to village
officials, employees and staff at all times. The Village Public Works Director
is authorized to post signage at the Village Hall parking lot indicating that
the lot is limited to parking for village officials, employees, and staff and
is not open to the general public for parking.
   (B)   Persons violating this schedule or failing to comply with any of its
provisions are subject to fines of not less than $75 nor more than $750 for
each offense with each day that a violation exists constituting a separate
offense.
   (C)   The Police Department and all members of such Department assigned to
traffic duty are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and
towed away by commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally
parked in violation of this schedule. The vehicle owner and/or operator shall
be responsible for the payment of any and all towing and storage fees.
(Ord. 2021-6, passed 5-18-21)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   PARABOLIC OR DISH-TYPE SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Opening and closing hours
   
90.02   Entry of domesticated animals into Village Greens Park restricted
   
90.03   Golf related activities prohibited
§ 90.01 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   All parks and recreational facilities shall be open from dawn until 30
minutes after sunset every day of each week. No person or property shall remain
in the park before opening time or after closing time unless permission has
been granted by the Village President and/or Parks Commissioner for extended
hours.
   (B)   The following exceptions to the previously delineated hours shall be
permitted. Any areas of the park for which lights are provided shall remain
open until 10:00 p.m. provided the lights are turned on. After 10:00 p.m. those
areas of the park for which lights are provided shall be closed regardless of
whether the lights are turned on or off. On Rockton Village park-on days when
the swimming pool is open and operating, the closing time for the park shall be
30 minutes after the closing time for the swimming pool. The pool closing time
shall be decided by the Recreation Director or his or her assistant.
   (C)   Unless there is flooding or another safety reason to close this area,
24-hour access to the boat launch and dock shall be permitted. Persons will be
allowed to load and unload their boats/canoes and park their vehicles in the
parking area while they are using the river for recreational purposes. Persons
using the park 30 minutes after sunset and before dawn are not permitted to
remain in the park after loading or unloading their boat/canoe.
(Ord. 1986-11, passed 10-20-86; Am. Ord. 1995-42, passed 9-18-95; Am. Ord.
2004-35, passed 12-21-04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 ENTRY OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS INTO VILLAGE GREENS PARK RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Includes dogs, cats, rabbits, pigs, horses, ponies,
cows and any breed of rodent which are owned by an individual.
      LEASHED AND UNDER CONTROL. An animal will be deemed to be properly
leashed and under the control of a person where the animal is restrained by
means of a leash, cord or rope of not more than ten feet in length and of
sufficient strength that it cannot be broken by the animal.
      PLAYGROUND AREA. Includes all areas of Village Greens Park containing
swings, climbing bars, slides or any other equipment designed for play
activities by minor children, as well as other areas clearly set off from the
rest of the park by timber borders or fencing or containing chip bark, mulch,
sand or stone ground cover.
   (B)   Control. It shall be unlawful for any person to bring any domestic
animals within Village Green Park unless properly leashed and under control at
all times.
   (C)   Playground area restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit any domestic animal to enter into any playground area within Village
Greens Park.
   (D)   Sign to be erected. It is directed that the Department of Public Works
shall purchase and erect in the center of the playground area a single double-
faced sign. The sign erected shall read in word and substance as follows:
PLAY AREA
NO PETS ALLOWED
   (E)   Animal defecation prohibited.
      (1)   No person being the owner of or having charge of any domestic
animal shall permit it to defecate upon any portion of the Village Greens Park.
      (2)   Any person being the owner of or having charge of any domestic
animal shall immediately remove any animal feces deposited on the property in
violation of division (E)(1) as above.
   (F)   Penalties. Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be subject to the following fines and penalties:
      (1)   Except as designated in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, any
person convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be fined $10
for the first violation and not less than $25 and no more than $750 for any
second or subsequent violations.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating division (E)(1) relating to
animal defecation where such violation occurred within the designated
playground area shall be fined $25 for the first offense and not less than $50
and no more than $750 for any second or subsequent violations.
      (3)   Any person convicted of violating subsection (E)(2) relating to a
failure to immediately remove any animal feces where such violation occurs
within the designated playground area shall be fined not less than $25 and no
more than $100 for the first such violation and not less than $50 and no more
than $750 for any second or subsequent violation. Additionally, any person
convicted of any such second or subsequent violation may also be required to
perform not less than 8 and no more than 40 hours of public service work
involving, but not limited to, picking up litter or performing maintenance work
within Village Greens Park and along the public roads and streets of the
village.
   (G)   Court appearance.
      (1)   As an alternative to any other manner of charging a violation of
this section, any village police officer may issue a ticket charging a
violation of a provision of this section. The ticket would allow the person
charged to satisfy the violation without a court appearance by written plea of
guilty and payment of the minimum fine prescribed in division (F) above, along
with the applicable cost. Any such payment must be submitted to the Village
Clerk along with the written plea of guilty no later than 48 hours before the
scheduled court date reflected on the written ticket.
      (2)   This provision permitting the avoidance of a court appearance by
written plea of guilty and the submission of the designated fine shall not be
applicable to any violations of division (E) where such violations occur within
the confines of the designated playground area. Violations of division (E)
occurring within the designated playground area shall necessitate an appearance
at the court date reflected on the ticket.
(Ord. 1997-17, passed 11-3-97)
§ 90.03 GOLF RELATED ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No golf related activities of any kind, including, but not limited to,
hitting and shagging of golf balls, shall be permitted at village parks
including, but not limited to the Rockton Athletic Fields, Settlers Park,
Village Green Park, Barwood Park and Woodlands Park. For purposes of clarity,
golf related activities does not include frisbee golf.
   (B)   The fine for violation of division (A) above shall not be less than
$50 nor more than $750 for each violation with each time that a violation
occurs constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-5-20)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Open burning
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see §§
32.35 et seq.
§ 91.01 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions.
      AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the atmosphere of one or more contaminants
in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration as to be
injurious to human, plant, or animal life, to health, or to property, or to
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property.
      GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
      OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the
products of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in
or passing through equipment for which a permit could be issued pursuant to
Illinois statute, as amended from time to time.
      REFUSE. Any discarded matter or any matter which is to be reduced in
volume, or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to
facilitate its discard, removal or disposal.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in
division (C).
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designated for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following open burning activities are permitted within
the village unless they cause air pollution:
      (1)   The open burning of landscape waste during the calendar months of
April, October and November, but only if:
         (a)   Burning shall be allowed every day during the hours of 8:00 a.m.
to 8:00 p.m.; and
         (b)   Burning must be maintained a minimum of 25 feet from the nearest
building structure or combustible fencing;
         (c)   A fire extinguishing source will be immediately available during
all fires;
         (d)   At all times that a flame, glow, or smoke is present, the
burning must be monitored and attended by an adult of at least 18 years of age;
         (e)   No accelerant can be used in connection with any fire;
         (f)   Burning of only yard waste produced on the property, such as
grass and shrubbery cuttings, leaves, and tree limbs. Waste generated elsewhere
may not be moved onto another property and disposed of (which includes all
methods of disposal such as burning, mulching, and composting);
         (g)   Open burning permitted by these terms of the exceptions stated
in this section shall under no circumstances, occur upon the sidewalk, right-
of-way, or the paved or improved portions of any street, or other public
roadway; and
         (h)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracts or air fields.
      (2)   The burning of cooking fuels, charcoal and/or wood for legitimate
campfire, recreational, and cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in
areas where such burning is consistent with other laws, provided that no
garbage shall be burned in such cases.
      (3)   The burning of waste gases, provided that in the case of refineries
all flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
      (4)   Small open flames, for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2003-25(1),
passed 9-3-03)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Title
   
92.002   Scope and purpose
Sanitation Rules
   
92.020   Wells must conform to state standards
   
92.021   Sewage disposal systems must conform to state standards
   
92.022   Compliance with health regulations of village
   
92.023   Things detrimental to health
   
92.024   General prohibition of unhealthful business
   
92.025   Noxious matter, refuse, offal and garbage dumping prohibited
   
92.026   Regulations for dwellings for human habitation
   
92.027   Garbage
   
92.028   Not allowed to become offensive
   
92.029   Disinfection of material
   
92.030   Limit of contents
   
92.031   Location of privy vault
   
92.032   Shall be abated when offensive
   
92.033   Vehicles for removal
   
92.034   Notice of violation
Nuisances
   
92.065   Nuisance defined
   
92.066   Procedure in abating nuisances
Litter
   
92.080   Refuse; depositing
   
92.081   Scattering from loaded vehicles
   
92.082   Glass and similar injurious material in streets
   
92.083   Tires with rough, sharp or uneven surface
   
92.084   Nuisance
Weeds
   
92.095   Nuisance
   
92.096   Duty to cut
   
92.097   Lien
   
92.098   Contents
   
92.099   Release of lien
   
92.100   Grass
   
92.101   Mandatory injunction
   
92.102   Statutory incorporation
Natural Lawns
   
92.115   Application for natural lawn
   
92.116   Natural lawn plan; definition
   
92.117   Burning
   
92.118   Revocation of natural lawn plan
   
92.119   Enforcement
Lawn Spraying
   
92.130   Signs required
   
92.131   List of pesticides applied
   
92.132   Limitations on chemical application
 
   
92.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Public Health Ordinance of the Village
of Rockton, County of Winnebago, State of Illinois.”
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.002 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The following by-laws, rules and regulations in this title are deemed
necessary for the purpose of promoting and preserving the public health,
safety, morals, comfort and general welfare of the people of the village.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
**** SANITATION RULES ****
§ 92.020 WELLS MUST CONFORM TO STATE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All wells dug, drilled or driven in the village shall conform to the
standards stipulated by the Department of Public Health of the State of
Illinois and all other laws and regulations applicable.
   (B)   It is unlawful to drill or maintain a well within 50 feet from any
cesspool, spring, catch basin, vault or stable.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.021 SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS MUST CONFORM TO STATE STANDARDS.
   All sewerage disposal systems shall be so constructed in the village that
they conform to the standards of design and location approved by the Department
of Public Health of the State of Illinois and all other applicable laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer Service, see
Ch. 51
§ 92.022 COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH REGULATIONS OF VILLAGE.
   No building, tent, trailer, edifice or premises used for a home, dwelling or
human habitation shall be constructed, erected, set-up, moved or used in the
village without first complying with all health regulations of the village and
all other applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.023 THINGS DETRIMENTAL TO HEALTH.
   Any building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot or premises shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition at all times, whether vacant or
occupied. Any person, persons, firm, company, corporation or association or
their representatives violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
or a finding of liability, the village may seek an order: requiring the
violator to remediate such violation at the violator's sole costs and expense;
authorizing the village to remediate the violation with the village being
reimbursed by the violator for any and all costs, incurred by the village for
such remediation; and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750 per day for each
and every violation with each day a violation exists constituting a separate
offense. In addition to any other relief available to the village, the village
may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit
the continuation of any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited
to, seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and/or
permanent injunction. The village shall also be entitled to recover any and all
costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of enforcing any violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14)
§ 92.024 GENERAL PROHIBITION OF UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any substance, matter or thing of any kind
whatsoever which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health to be allowed to
exist in connection with any business, be used therein or thereon or to be used
in any work or labor carried on in the village, and no health menace shall be
permitted to exist in connection with any business or in connection with any
such work or labor.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm, company, corporation or association or
their representatives violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction
or a finding of liability, the village may seek an order: requiring the
violator to remediate such violation at the violator's sole costs and expense;
authorizing the village to remediate the violation with the village being
reimbursed by the violator for any and all costs, incurred by the village for
such remediation; and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750 per day for each
and every violation with each day a violation exists constituting a separate
offense. In addition to any other relief available to the village, the village
may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit
the continuation of any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited
to, seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and/or
permanent injunction. The village shall also be entitled to recover any and all
costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of enforcing any violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.025 NOXIOUS MATTER, REUSE, OFFAL AND GARBAGE DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any ashes, rubbish, tin cans and all combustibles
to be deposited or dumped upon any lot or land in the village, but must be
deposited or dumped in the area set aside for that purpose.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.026 REGULATIONS FOR DWELLINGS FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain any building for human habitation
where the floors, walls and ceiling are kept in an unsanitary condition where
flies, dogs, cats, vermin, dust and dirt are allowed to accumulate and spread
filth in the dwelling.
   (B)   It is unlawful to maintain and reside in a home or place of dwelling
that is not equipped with sufficient windows to provide adequate light and
ventilation.
   (C)   It is unlawful to maintain and reside in a home or dwelling whereby
drain water is permitted to run anywhere but within a cesspool or catch basin.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any dwelling to contain or be in use for
human purposes, beds or bed clothes that have been used by a known diseased
person or beds or bed clothes that show indication of bed bugs or other vermin
that are carriers of disease.
   (E)   It is unlawful to maintain an indoor chemical toilet unless sanctioned
by the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   It is unlawful to have heating devices such as stoves, oil burners and
furnaces so constructed and arranged that they are a menace or health hazard to
the occupants residing therein.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.027 GARBAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of construing and applying this chapter, the word
ASHES is defined as residue resulting from combustion of any substance; the
word GARBAGE as all rejected or waste household material.
   (B)   All property owners residing in the village or all tenants renting and
residing within the village who accumulate garbage from the household shall
obtain and have in their possession at all times a suitable container. All
refuse shall be stored in solid body sealed containers resistant to animal
infestations or destruction such as commercially available garbage cans with
tightfitting lids, or on commercial properties, including condominiums or
apartments, commercially available Dumpsters with lids closed. Such Dumpsters
or containers may be referred to as garbage receptacles. At all times the
garbage receptacles shall be maintained in a clean condition with lids securely
closed and with all refuse only contained within the closed garbage receptacle.
   (C)   It is unlawful to place garbage in the streets, alleys or roadways,
except on collection days.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2022-20, passed 8-2-22) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Solid Waste, see
Ch. 50
§ 92.028 NOT ALLOWED TO BECOME OFFENSIVE.
   The contents of any receptacle, cesspool, privy, catch basin, vault or water
closet shall not be allowed to become offensive or to become dangerous to
health.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.029 DISINFECTION OF MATERIAL.
   The contents of any receptacle, cesspool, privy, catch basin, vault or water
closet shall be disinfected as often as may be necessary with a suitable
chemical.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.030 LIMIT OF CONTENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit the contents of any vault, privy or cesspool
to accumulate within two feet from the surface.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 LOCATION OF PRIVY VAULT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain
any privy vault or suffer same to remain upon the premises abutting upon or
adjoining any street, alley, court or public place in which is located a public
sewer after one year from the date this section became effective.
   (B)   It shall constitute and is declared a health menace for any person to
erect or maintain any privy as near as 50 feet from a well.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.032 SHALL BE ABATED WHEN OFFENSIVE.
   All privies, vaults, cesspools or catch basins, any part of the contents of
which are above the surface, within two feet of the surface or that are foul or
emit smells or odors prejudicial to Public Health are declared a menace to
health, and the village shall have the power to abate them.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.033 VEHICLES FOR REMOVAL.
   The contents of all privies and cesspools are to be removed in an airtight
substantial vehicle as often as may be necessary, depending upon the usage of
such privy or cesspool.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57)
§ 92.034 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In all cases where any firm, person, company or corporation violates or
permits any violation of any part of the foregoing subchapter, 24 hours notice
shall be given in writing, to such person, firm, company or corporation in
charge or control of such building or premises, to cease such violation. In
cases of neglect or refusal to do so in accordance with such notice by the
violator, upon conviction or a finding of liability, the village may seek an
order: requiring the violator to remediate such violation at the violator's
sole costs and expense; authorizing the village to remediate the violation with
the village being reimbursed by the violator for any and all costs, incurred by
the village for such remediation; and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750
per day for each and every violation with each day a violation exists
constituting a separate offense. In addition to any other relief available to
the village, the village may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any
injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary
injunction and/or permanent injunction. The village shall also be entitled to
recover any and all costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of
enforcing any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14)
**** NUISANCES ****
§ 92.065 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   In addition to those things which are elsewhere by ordinance of the village
declared to be and constitute a nuisance, it is declared to be a nuisance for
any person within the limits of the village:
   (A)   To so negligently conduct any business or use any premises as to
create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render it unwholesome
or disagreeable to the neighborhood;
   (B)   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or vegetable matters,
slop, swill, suds, garbage, filth or noisome substances of any kind to be
collected, deposited or to remain in any place in the village to the prejudice
of others;
   (C)   To throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, any offensive
matter or the carcass of any animal in any watercourse, pond, spring or well or
on land within the village;
   (D)   To deposit any night soil, dead animal or other filthy, offensive or
noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park or other place;
   (E)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any drinking
hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of others;
   (F)   For any person to keep, or suffer to be kept, in a foul, offensive,
nauseous or filthy condition any chicken coop, cow house, stable, cellar,
drain, pool, toilet, sewer or sink of any railroad car, building, yard, grounds
or premises; and
   (G)   To cause or allow the depositing and/or dumping of landscape waste and
refuse on private property.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2015-22, passed 6-16-15; Am. Ord. 2024-
10, passed 6-18-24; Am. Ord. 2025-29, passed 10-21-25)
§ 92.066 PROCEDURE IN ABATING NUISANCES.
   Whenever the existence of any nuisance or cause of any disease set forth in
§§
92.065,
92.084 and/or
92.095 shall come to the knowledge of the village or its agents, the village
shall then serve or cause to be served a written or printed notice upon the
owner, occupant or agent of the premises or building whereon or wherein such
nuisance or cause of disease is located, giving notice thereof and directions
for its abatement or removal and requiring the owner or occupant or agent to
abate the nuisance or cause of disease. In cases where any owner, occupant or
agent refuses or neglects to strictly comply with the requirements or
directions in the notice, upon conviction or a finding of liability, the
village may seek an order: requiring the violator to remediate such violation
at the violator's sole costs and expense; authorizing the village to remediate
the violation with the village being reimbursed by the violator for any and all
costs, incurred by the village for such remediation; and/or the imposition of
fines of up to $750 per day for each and every violation with each day a
violation exists constituting a separate offense. In addition to any other
relief available to the village, the village may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation
of this chapter, including, but not limited to, seeking a temporary restraining
order, temporary injunction and/or permanent injunction. The village shall also
be entitled to recover any and all costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as
a part of enforcing any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 1957-4, passed 3-18-57; Am. Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14; Am. Ord. 2014-
23, passed 9-2-14) Penalty, see §
92.999
**** LITTER ****
§ 92.080 REFUSE; DEPOSITING.
   No person shall deposit or place any refuse or garbage in or upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, publicly-owned property or other public place except
as provided in this code.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 92.081 SCATTERING FROM LOADED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be loaded with ashes, cinders, coal, mortar, snow or
similar material so as to scatter such material along the street, avenue or
alley over which the same is being driven. Vehicles shall be so constructed
that when loaded with ashes, cinders, coal, mortar or other similar matter they
shall not scatter such material along or upon any avenue, street or alley over
which the same is being delivered.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 92.082 GLASS AND SIMILAR INJURIOUS MATERIAL IN STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place any glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, cans or any other substance
likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle upon such street, alley or other
public place.
   (B)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
street, alley or other public place any destructive or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street or
alley shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
street or alley from such vehicle.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 92.083 TIRES WITH ROUGH, SHARP OR UNEVEN SURFACE.
   No tractor, road roller, steam shovel, concrete mixer, excavating machine,
traction engine or other vehicle, of which any tire is worn or is not smooth or
has sharp or uneven surfaces or has cleats, spikes or projections of any kind
attached thereto or have a tire of less than three inches in width that will
cause damage to the road or pavement, shall be propelled along, over or across
the pavement in any public street, avenue or alley.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 92.084 NUISANCE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the term NUISANCE is
defined to mean any condition of use of premises or of building exteriors which
is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the use
of a premises, or the keeping or the depositing on or the scattering over the
premises, of any of the following:
      (1)   Lumber, junk, trash or debris;
      (2)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers;
      (3)   Unsheltered storage of machinery, implements and/or equipment and
personal property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes
for which it was manufactured, which hereinafter are collectively described as
“said personalty,” for a period of 30 days or more (except in licensed junk
yards) within the corporate limits of this village.
   (B)   Duty of maintenance of private property. No person or business owning,
leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any
nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person or business keep or maintain such
premises in a manner so as to be detrimental to the property of others or
causing substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the
neighborhood in which such premises are located.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance by owners. Whenever the existence of any
nuisance set forth in this section shall come to the knowledge of the village
or its agents, the village shall then serve or cause to be served a written or
printed notice upon the owner, occupant or agent of the premises or building
whereon or wherein such nuisance is located, giving notice thereof and
directions for its abatement or removal and requiring the owner or occupant or
agent to abate the nuisance. In cases where any owner, occupant or agent
refuses or neglects to strictly comply with the requirements or directions in
the notice, upon conviction or a finding of liability, the village may seek an
order: requiring the violator to remediate such violation at the violator's
sole costs and expense; authorizing the village to remediate the violation with
the village being reimbursed by the violator for any and all costs, incurred by
the village for such remediation; and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750
per day for each and every violation with each day a violation exists
constituting a separate offense. In addition to any other relief available to
the village, the village may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any
injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary
injunction and/or permanent injunction. The village shall also be entitled to
recover any and all costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of
enforcing any violation of this section.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2024-10, passed 6-18-24; Am. Ord. 2025-29,
passed 10-21-25)
**** WEEDS ****
§ 92.095 NUISANCE.
   Whoever shall suffer or permit any cockleburs, thistles, burdocks or rank or
noxious weeds, grass or vegetation to grow or be upon any lot or premise owned
or controlled by him or her shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.096 DUTY TO CUT.
   No owner of real estate shall refuse or neglect to cut weeds, including
burdock, ragweed (giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson,
vervain, common labsquarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, nettles, smart weeds
(all varieties), poison hemlock, English Cahrlick or Wild Mustard, field bind
weed, commonly known as “Creeping Jenny,” goatsbeard, field dodder, Indian
mustard, Oxeye daisy, sow thistle, harmful barberry, bull thistle, poison ivy,
leafy spurge, nodding thistle, also known as musk thistle, wild parsnip and
wild himp when such weeds shall have reached a height in excess of eight
inches.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.097 LIEN.
   If weeds are cut by the village or by someone directed to cut them on its
behalf, a notice of lien for the cost and expense thereof incurred shall be
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Winnebago, County, Illinois
within one year after the removal cost and/or expense is incurred. The amount
of the lien shall be the removal cost and/or expense incurred.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-6-12)
§ 92.098 CONTENTS.
   The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
   (C)   The dates or dates when the cost and expense was incurred.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.099 RELEASE OF LIEN.
   Upon payment of the cost and expense, the lien shall be released by the
village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall
be filed and recorded in the same manner as filing notice of the lien.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.100 GRASS.
   No owner of real estate shall refuse or neglect to cut grass when such grass
shall have reached a height in excess of eight inches, except as provided in §§
92.115 et seq. If any owner permits grass in excess of eight inches in height
to remain standing upon his or her property, the village may cut the grass or
authorize someone to cut the grass on its behalf, and in such event the
provisions of §§
92.101 and
92.999 shall be applied to this section.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.101 MANDATORY INJUNCTION.
   In addition to all other penalties and remedies provided for in this
chapter, the village shall have the right to seek and obtain a mandatory
injunction against the owner of any such real estate who is in violation of any
of the provisions of this subchapter enjoining and ordering him or her to cut
grass and weeds in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.102 STATUTORY INCORPORATION.
   All applicable and pertinent provisions of Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS
5/11-20-7 are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
**** NATURAL LAWNS ****
§ 92.115 APPLICATION FOR NATURAL LAWN.
   (A)   Application. Any owner of land in the village may apply for approval
of a natural lawn plan where the grasses may exceed eight inches in height with
the Village Board.
   (B)   Application requirements. Each application for a natural lawn plan
shall be on a form provided by the Village Clerk. A copy of the application for
a natural lawn, together with an adjoining owner’s reply to a natural lawn
application, shall be personally delivered or mailed by certified mail to all
adjoining owners at least 15 days prior to the regular monthly board meeting
that will act upon the application.
   (C)   Hearing on application. The Village Clerk, upon receipt of a properly
completed application for a natural lawn, will schedule a hearing at a regular
monthly board meeting of the Village Board of Trustees. The hearing must be at
least 15 days after receipt of the application by the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk will mail out notices of the hearing date to the applicant, any
adjoining owners who have requested notice of the hearing and any additional
property owners who are owners of real estate situated in whole or in part
within 200 feet of the boundaries of the property listed in the application.
The Clerk will also mail notices of the hearing to the Winnebago County Health
Department and the Chief of the Rockton Fire Department. On the hearing date,
the Village Board of Trustees will conduct a hearing on the application. All
parties desiring to be heard on the matter must be given at lease five minutes
of presentation time. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board will vote to
grant or deny the application. The vote will be by majority of those Board
members present.
   (D)   Term of application. Any application granted hereunder by the Village
Board for a natural lawn will be valid only for a period of one calendar year
and must be renewed annually.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.116 NATURAL LAWN PLAN; DEFINITION.
   (A)   NATURAL LAWN PLAN means a written plan relating to management of the
lawn which contains a drawing of the plot upon which the grass will exceed
eight inches in length, a statement of intent and purpose for the lawn, a
general description of the vegetational types, plants and plan succession
involved and the specific management and maintenance techniques to be employed.
The natural lawn plan must include provisions for cutting, at a length not
greater than eight inches, the terrace area, that portion between the sidewalk
and the street or a strip not less than four feet adjacent to the street where
there is no sidewalk and at least a five foot strip to neighboring property
lines unless waived by the abutting property owner on the side so affected.
   (B)   In order to maintain a natural lawn plan, an application or renewal
application showing all requirements are met must be submitted prior to June of
each year to the Village Board. Upon receipt of any application, a
representative of the Village Board will inspect the property prior to the
Village Board meeting, which will pass upon the plan.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.117 BURNING.
   If an owner of a natural lawn plans to burn for regeneration purposes,
notice must be given to the Rockton Fire Chief no later than 24 hours in
advance of the burning date, and the Fire Chief has the authority to cancel the
burning if weather conditions are not suitable.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.118 REVOCATION OF NATURAL LAWN PLAN.
   The natural lawn plan may be revoked by the Village Board for failure to
comply with the requirements. Upon request of any party, the Village Clerk will
send a written notice by certified mail to the owner of the natural lawn
setting forth the fact that a request for a hearing on revocation of a natural
lawn has been made, and the notice will contain the date the matter is to be
heard in an open meeting by the Village Board. The hearing date shall not be
sooner than 15 days from the date the Clerk sends the notice by certified mail.
The Village Board will conduct a hearing and at the conclusion of the hearing
the Board will vote to grant or deny the request. The vote will be by majority
of those Board members present.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.119 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for enforcing this subchapter
and shall first give notice to the Clerk of the village of any property owner
who is in violation. The Village Clerk would give written notice to the
property owner by mailing a letter giving a date certain but not less than ten
days to come into compliance. At the end of the time given the Zoning
Administrator would then reinspect it. If the property owners were not in
compliance then a citation for noncompliance would be issued and the village
could take any further action authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
**** LAWN SPRAYING ****
§ 92.130 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any yard, golf course, playground, athletic facilities, school
grounds, parks and other similar facilities upon which a pesticide has been
applied shall be posted with at least four signs at the time of application by
the chemical application for 72 hours.
   (B)   The sign shall be a four-inch by five-inch waterproof sign, with a
white background with dark lettering stating “Lawn Chemicals Applied.”
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.131 LIST OF PESTICIDES APPLIED.
   In addition to the sign the chemical application shall provide the customer
with a list of those pesticides applied, including both the common and trade
names and any health, safety or environmental statements contained on the
label.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.132 LIMITATIONS ON CHEMICAL APPLICATION.
   No chemical application shall apply any chemicals to any property in any
manner that will result in drift of the chemicals to property other than to the
property being treated.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner who fails to comply with the requirements of §
92.096 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 for the first offense
and not less than $50 for each subsequent offense. At the same time, if any
owner permits weeds in excess of eight inches in height to remain in standing
upon his or her property, the village may cut the weeds or authorize someone to
cut the weeds on its behalf.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
   (C)   Any person or company who fails to comply with the requirements of §§
92.115 et seq. and §§
92.130 et seq. shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 for the first
offense and for each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 7-5-88)
   (D)   Upon conviction or a finding of liability for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the village may seek an order: requiring the
violator to remediate such violation at the violator's sole costs and expense;
authorizing the village to remediate the violation with the village being
reimbursed by the violator for any and all costs, incurred by the village for
such remediation; and/or the imposition of fines of up to $750 per day for each
and every violation with each day a violation exists constituting a separate
offense. In addition to any other relief available to the village, the village
may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit
the continuation of any violation of this chapter, including, but not limited
to, seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and/or
permanent injunction. The village shall also be entitled to recover any and all
costs, including attorney fees, it incurs as a part of enforcing any violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-19, passed 7-22-14)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Exceptions
   
93.03   Abandonment prohibited
   
93.04   Certain vehicles prohibited on streets and highways
   
93.05   Inoperable vehicles
   
93.06   Towing away
   
93.07   Impoundment; disposal
   
93.08   Immunity from damages
   
93.09   Reimbursement of towing costs
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
   Administrative fees and procedures for impounding vehicles for specified
violations, see §
70.110
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is left at any place for such a time
and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to
have been abandoned.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels or
other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power; provided, however, that
the term inoperable motor vehicle shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations nor to any motor vehicle
that is kept within a building when not in use, to historic vehicles over 25
years of age or to motor vehicles on the premises of a place of business
engaged in wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in an enclosed building;
   (B)   A vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise;
   (C)   A vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in
a lawful place and manner by the village.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.03 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village nor leave any vehicle
at any place within the village for such time and under such circumstances as
to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.04 CERTAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway in the village.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.05 INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   On private property. No person in charge or control of any property
within the village, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise,
shall allow any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or
discarded vehicle to remain on such property longer than seven days; and no
person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the village for a
longer time than seven days.
   (B)   Prohibited on streets and highways. No person shall leave any
partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle on any street or
highway within the village.
   (C)   Disposal of inoperable motor vehicles. All persons are required to
dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under their control upon written
notice received from the President or from the Chief of
Police or any member of his or her Department by him or her commanding such
disposition of the inoperable motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.06 TOWING AWAY.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, such officer is authorized to move such vehicle or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to
a position off the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway or in a tunnel in such a position or under such
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic. Whenever the
Department finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle standing upon the paved or
main-traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or may be expected to
interrupt the free flow of traffic on the highway or interfere with the
maintenance of the highway, the Department is authorized to move the vehicle to
a position off the paved or improved or main-traveled part of the highway.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
   (D)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of the village, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.07 IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSAL.
   Any vehicle which reasonably appears to be abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed or which is inoperable shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or
disposed of in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.08 IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his or her legal representative or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
chapter.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 93.09 REIMBURSEMENT OF TOWING COSTS.
   (A)   The village is entitled to reimbursement for all reasonable expenses
for towing, storage and custodial fees incurred by the village or its Police
Department for seized, forfeited, abandoned, lost or stolen vehicles, of which
possession is transferred to the Police Department.
   (B)   The village shall make reasonable inquiry and efforts to identify and
notify the owner or the person entitled to possession (such as, lienholder) of
the vehicle, and shall return the vehicles after the owner, lienholder or other
such person provides reasonable and satisfactory proof of their ownership or
right to possession.
   (C)   All reasonable expense incurred by the village or its Police
Department shall be reimbursed by the lienholder or owner before possession of
any vehicle may be recovered.
(Ord. 2002-12, passed 8-20-02)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Control
   
94.03   Harboring of animals
   
94.04   Impoundment; redemption fees
   
94.05   Adoption; destruction
   
94.06   Animal waste
   
94.07   Number of animals per household
   
94.08   Excessive noise
   
94.09   Cruelty
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Includes dogs, cats, ferrets, rabbits, pigs, ponies, any
breed of rodent, any breed of fowl and any breed of reptile which are owned by
an individual.
   HARBOR. To give shelter, food or care to any animal other than the owner's.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in any domestic animal or who
harbors, feeds, cares for, acts as a custodian for or knowingly permits any
animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal will be deemed to be running at large when it is
located anywhere within the village other than on the premises of its owner and
not under control as defined in this section.
   UNDER CONTROL. An animal will be deemed to be properly under control where
the animal is confined within a home, building, cage or fenced yard where the
fence is of sufficient height and construction to prevent exit by the animal.
An animal shall also be deemed properly UNDER CONTROL when restrained by means
of a leash, cord or rope of not more than ten feet in length and of sufficient
strength that it cannot be broken by the animal.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
§ 94.02 CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any domestic animal owned or
kept by him or her to go upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, public place
or way or upon the private premises of any other person unless the animal is
properly under control.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HARBORING OF ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or otherwise provide food or
care to any domestic animal within the village no matter where it is located
unless such action is done at the request of or with the consent of the owner
of the domestic animal or animals in question.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION FEES.
   (A)   Any animal found within the village in violation of the this chapter
shall be impounded by any police officer or such person as may be designated by
the Village Board. Any animal so impounded shall be transported and placed with
the Village Pound, if and when one is built, any licensed veterinarian within
or without the village with whom the village may at such time have entered into
a contractual arrangement for the housing of impounded animals or such other
facility, including the Winnebago County Animal Control Department, as
designated from time to time by the Village Board.
   (B)   After impoundment, if the owner of the animal is known or their
identity is discoverable through reasonable investigation, every reasonable
attempt shall be made to notify the owner of the impoundment. Notice may be by
telephone, mail or in person. If notice is given by telephone rather than in
person, notice by mail shall also be sent to the last known address of the
owner of the impounded animal. Failure to actually notify the owner of the
impoundment of their animal shall not serve as a defense to any violation of
this chapter, nor shall it serve to extend the specified redemption period.
   (C)   The Office of the Village Clerk shall maintain timely information
regarding the location where impounded animals shall be housed.
   (D)   No animal so impounded shall be released unless and until the owner
shall pay to the village the sum of $20 as an impoundment fee as well as any
housing fees to the facility in which the animal is housed.
   (E)   No animal so impounded shall be released by any facility where housed,
including the Winnebago County Animal Control Department shelter, unless
presented with a receipt from the Village Clerk as proof of payment by the
owner of the designated impoundment fee.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
§ 94.05 ADOPTION; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any animal impounded pursuant to this chapter may be redeemed as above
by its owner within seven days from the date of impoundment.
   (B)   Any animal not redeemed within the seven-day time period may be put up
for adoption or disposed of in accordance with the laws of the State of
Illinois.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for the Chief of Police or any other village police
officer to kill any animal found running at large within the limits of the
village if, in their opinion, the animal poses an immediate threat to the
safety of the officer or other person and it cannot be safely captured for
impoundment or otherwise safely detained until County Animal Control can be
called to impound the animal.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
§ 94.06 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner of or having charge of any animal, shall
permit it to defecate anywhere within the village limits except upon the
owner's premises.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to a violation of division (A) of this section
that the person, who is the owner of or in charge of any animal, did
immediately remove any animal feces so deposited.
   (C)   Every owner shall be responsible for the cleanup of waste caused by
any animal in his or her care and control and shall not permit waste to
accumulate upon their property so as to become a health hazard or otherwise to
become a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
§ 94.07 NUMBER OF ANIMALS PER HOUSEHOLD.
   (A)   No person within the village unless otherwise licensed by the State of
Illinois for such purposes, shall own, harbor or otherwise, keep and care for
more than five domestic animals within one residence.
   (B)   This limitation shall not apply to domestic mice, rats, other rodents
or other small animals that are kept in cages within the owner’s residence at
all times. This limitation shall not apply to domestic mice, rats, other
rodents, reptiles or any other small animals or fowl that are kept in a cage or
aquarium within the owner’s residence at all times.
   (C)   This provision shall also not be applicable in the event of any animal
having a litter, the owner shall make every effort to sell or give away the
excess number of animals within 24 weeks of the birth of the litter.
   (D)   The restrictions of this chapter regarding the number of domestic
animals kept in an individual household shall have no application to and shall
not be enforceable against the owners or residents of any household in which
more than the specified number of domestic animals are housed prior to and on
the effective date of this chapter. No owner who possesses more than five
domestic animals as of the effective date of this chapter shall be required to
dispose of or otherwise reduce the number of domestic animals currently kept in
their care. However, upon the death or other disposition of any such domestic
animal, the owner shall not be allowed to obtain a replacement to the extent
that such an act would again increase the total number of domestic animals
within a single household in excess of the limits set out above.
   (E)   The restrictions of this chapter regarding the number of domestic
animals kept in an individual household shall have no application to and shall
not be enforceable against any individual who possesses a license from the
State of Illinois authorizing them to act as a breeder or authorizing them to
operate a shelter for the care and keeping of injured or abandoned animals.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
§ 94.08 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or harbor any
animal which, as a result of frequent barking, howling or by other means, make
noise sufficient to cause annoyance or disturbance to persons in the village.
This section shall not apply to hospitals or clinics conducted for the
treatment of animals which have been licensed by the State of Illinois and
approved by the Winnebago County Health Department for such purposes.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 CRUELTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat cruelly any animal in any of
the ways mentioned in this section:
   (A)   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, cruelly beating, tormenting,
torturing, mutilating or cruelly killing any animal or causing or knowingly
allowing the same to be done;
   (B)   By unnecessarily failing to provide any animal in his or her charge or
custody, as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink or shelter;
   (C)   By abandoning any animal;
   (D)   By instigating, causing or assisting in any dog fight, prize fight,
cock fight or any public or private fighting of any animals of any kind.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly violates the provisions of §
94.04(E) regarding the redemption of or attempt to redeem any impounded animal
without payment of the required impoundment fee shall be fined a sum not less
than $80 nor more than $750 for each such violation.
   (B)   Any person convicted of any of the provisions of §
94.09 regarding cruelty to animals shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense,
the penalty for which may include imprisonment in the Winnebago County Jail for
a period not to exceed six months, performance of public service work and a
fine not to exceed $750. Where the cruelty involves more than one animal, the
cruelty or abuse to each animal involved shall be deemed a separate violation
of this chapter and the penalties set out herein may be imposed concurrently or
consecutively.
   (C)   Any person found in violation of any other provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $750.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-98)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
95.01   Regulating the placement of objects and the like on the village rights-
of-way and the like
   
95.02   Encroachments
   
95.03   Snow and ice removal
   
95.04   Street construction
   
95.05   Excavations under village rights-of-way and property
   
95.06   Small wireless facilities
   
95.07   Maintenance and repair of sidewalks
§ 95.01 REGULATING THE PLACEMENT OF OBJECTS AND THE LIKE ON THE VILLAGE RIGHTS-
OF-WAY AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, corporation, group or entity may cause to be placed
within or upon property owned by the village, upon the right-of-way of the
streets within the village or any easement that the village has for egress and
ingress, any objects, obstacles, ornaments, trees, bushes, plants, landscaping
materials or conduct any landscaping upon the area without prior written
approval of the village. This provision shall not be applicable to the
placement of marker flags or reflectors constructed of plastic or similar
material selected and approved by the Director of Public Works in writing. The
markers may be placed on village rights-of-way and easements to mark the edging
of any lawn or grassy areas in specific locations and at specific distances as
designated by the Director of Public Works.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works and employees under his or her
supervision, may remove any such markers at such times, locations and in such
manner as deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works, in his or her sole
discretion, to ensure the safe and proper plowing of snow from village streets.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, group or entity
to damage, destroy, remove or move any reflective markers placed upon village
rights-of-way or easements without the consent of the Director of Public Works.
Any person damaging, destroying, removing or moving any such markers shall be
subject to payment of an amount equal to the replacement cost of any markers
damaged, destroyed, removed or moved as well as reimbursement for the cost of
any property damage proximately caused by any such acts.
   (B)   Any existing trees or bushes in the right-of-way that are not a
serious threat to pedestrians or vehicles shall not be required to be removed,
but shall not be replaced.
   (C)   Any object in the right-of-way that the village believes poses a
threat to a pedestrian or vehicle, the village shall cause to be removed by
first requesting the property owner to remove same and, if not removed, the
village shall remove same and shall bill the individual or property owner the
cost of the removal.
   (D)   Any object in the right-of-way that the village believes poses a
serious threat to pedestrians or vehicles shall be removed by the village. The
village shall then notify the individual or property owner that the village has
removed the object.
   (E)   This section shall not prohibit the placement of mailboxes that are
placed in compliance with the United States of America postal regulations.
(Ord. 1995-41, passed 10-2-95; Am. Ord. 1998-7, passed 4-6-98; Am. Ord. 2018-
22, passed 8-21-18)
§ 95.02 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, an encroachment within
the limits of the roadway right-of-way.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed for each and every day during which a violation
continues or exists.
(Ord. 1984-2, passed 1-3-84)
§ 95.03 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   It is declared to be a nuisance to suffer and permit the entrance to
business or residential premises within the village to remain covered with ice
and congealed snow and in a slippery condition or uneven rendering travel
thereon perilous; and whenever such sidewalks or approaches shall become so
covered the tenant or occupant of such commercial or residential property shall
without delay sprinkle such sidewalks or approaches with ashes or sand and as
soon as practicable remove such ice and congealed snow. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, commercial properties shall complete snow and ice removal within 24
hours of the end of a weather event. Commercial properties shall also keep
sidewalks and approaches safely traversable at all times, including, but not
limited to, ice formation due to temperature change and not a definable weather
event.
   (B)   No owner, tenant or occupant of any premises located within the
village upon which there is a sidewalk shall allow any obstruction, tree, bush
or any other plant or part thereof to grow or remain over the sidewalk so as to
obstruct pedestrians walking on the sidewalk.
   (C)   No person in cleaning snow from lots, parking areas, driveways,
filling stations, garages or other large areas shall pile or redistribute the
snow in any street or sidewalk which in any way tends to narrow or obstruct the
traveled portion of such street or sidewalk, block the vision of motorists or
intersections, prevent parking at the curb or in any way impede snow removal or
create a traffic hazard; provided, however, that nothing contained in this
section shall be applicable to the removal of snow from sidewalks.
   (D)   (1)   In the event the village determines, in its sole discretion,
that village snow plows/vehicles have actually and physically hit and damaged a
mailbox during the course of providing snow removal services, the village may
replace the damaged mailbox with a basic metal mailbox and wooden four-by- four
post. In no event shall the village be obligated to spend more than $31 for the
replacement mailbox and post. To the extent the owner of the damaged mailbox
desires to install a more expensive mailbox, the owner shall notify the village
Public Works Director of such intent and the village shall forward the owner a
check in the amount of $31 to be applied toward the costs of the more expensive
mailbox.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment by the village shall only be
applicable to those damaged mailboxes which conformed to any and all applicable
federal, state, local and postal regulations. The village shall not be
obligated to replace any mailboxes which are damaged as a result of the snow
that is thrown or plowed by the plow blade.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-5-10; Am. Ord. 2021-4,
passed 2-2-21)
§ 95.04 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All new street construction proposed to be constructed by private and
public means shall require the submission of the plans, including the grading,
cross-cut and engineering maps, to the City Engineer of the village, prior to
construction thereof.
   (B)   Unless hereafter provided, all streets shall conform to standards
established by the Illinois Department of Public Roads and in conformity with
the highway motor fuel tax standards. Streets shall hereafter consist of not
less than a 24-foot gravel or crushed stone base, with a 20-foot A-3 surface,
as said term is defined by the Illinois Department of Highways. The surface
shall consist primarily of a primer, two cover coats and a seal coat, in
conformity with standard specifications of the Department of Public Highways.
   (C)   No street or proposed construction shall be accepted for maintenance
by the village unless first approved by the Village Engineer and a permit for
construction issued thereon.
   (D)   Subdividers submitting plats providing for the construction of streets
at some future time shall provide for the deposit of funds to cover such
construction before the plats shall be approved for acceptance or annexation to
the village.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever sells or offers for sale lots under proposed plats or
plans not providing for the construction of streets meeting the minimum
requirements heretofore provided within the village shall be fined in an amount
as established from time to time by ordinance of the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of any officer or employee
of the village that the provisions of this section have been violated, it shall
be his or her duty to notify the village legal officer of the fact, and the
legal officer shall be authorized to institute suit for the enjoining of the
construction or proposed construction which is contrary to the provisions
herein and shall be further authorized to prosecute for the recovery of any
fine before any Justice of the Peace of the County of Winnebago.
(Ord. 1962-7, passed 10-1-62)
§ 95.05 EXCAVATIONS UNDER VILLAGE RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
      (2)   Intent. In enacting this section, the village intends to exercise
its authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use
of the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards
to address issues presented by utility facilities, including without
limitation:
         (a)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
         (b)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and
other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
         (c)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
         (d)   Protect against damage to streets, curbs, parkways, walks, storm
sewers, water or sewer facilities;
         (e)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
         (f)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures
and materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
         (g)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities
are installed;
         (h)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
         (i)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in
the rights-of-way; and
         (j)   Ensure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private
properties adjacent to utility facilities locations.
      (3)   Facilities subject to this section. This section applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived
may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as
presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any
applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
      (4)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this section.
      (5)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
         (a)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
         (b)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with,
or inconsistency between, the provisions of this section and the provisions of
any franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (6)   Conflicts with other policies. This section supersedes all policies
or parts of policies adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
      (7)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this section to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
      (8)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this section and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this section when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. Any term not defined in this section shall have the
meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill. Admin. Code 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise. The following words, terms and phrases, when used
in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      AASHTO. The American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials.
      ANSI. The American National Standards Institute.
      APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this section.
      ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
      BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
      BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
      CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
      CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
      CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
      CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
      CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such
as: carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
      CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
      COATING. A protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
      CONDUCTOR. A wire carrying electrical current.
      CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
      CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance,
placement, alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in
place of facilities.
      COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or
conductor.
      CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines
of a right-of-way.
      DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any work that obstructs the right-of-way or
causes a material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its
intended use. Such work may include, without limitation, the following:
excavating or other cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of
materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and
compaction or loosening of the soil and shall not include the parking of
vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of
traffic on a highway.
      EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the
safety of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
      ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
      ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
      EQUIPMENT. The materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items
used to facilitate construction of facilities.
      EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material or laying
bare by digging.
      EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
      FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
The term FACILITY does not include any facility owned or operated by the
village.
      FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land
adjacent to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a
highway.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its
quantity, form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is
determined by the Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
      HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. The term HIGHWAY includes all
highway land and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments,
bridges, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and
appurtenances necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
      HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
      HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401, a
part of the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007.
      ICC. The State Commerce Commission.
      IDOT. The State Department of Transportation.
      JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
      JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
      JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
      J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
      MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial
highways.
      OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
      PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal
to the centerline of a right-of-way.
      PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or
sidewalk.
      PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility
or for the construction of a facility.
      PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to
divisions (C) and (D).
      PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
      PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
      PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a
carrier pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
      PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the
village. If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
      PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the
government, whether at local, state or federal level.
      RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other
area disrupted by the construction of a facility.
      RETAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. A telecommunications service sold to
an end user. The term RETAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE does not include a
telecommunications service provided by a telecommunications carrier to a
telecommunications carrier, including to itself, as a component of, or for the
provision of, telecommunications service. A BUSINESS RETAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SERVICE is a retail telecommunications service provided to a business end user.
A RESIDENTIAL RETAIL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE is a retail telecommunications
service provided to a residential end user.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes,
including utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority
to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any real or
personal village property that is not specifically described in this definition
and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures or
improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement, curbs and
shoulders.
      SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to division (E).
      SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
      SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. The term "private line" means a dedicated
non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer
to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The term TELECOMMUNICATIONS does not include value added services in
which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission. The
term TELECOMMUNICATIONS does not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. The term TELECOMMUNICATIONS does not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC 521 and following), as now or
hereafter amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined
in the rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 CFR 76.1500 et seq.).
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
      TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
      UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this section.
      VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or
vapors from an underground casing.
      VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v), a part of
the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.
      WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
      WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to
soften the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
      WinGIS. The Winnebago County Geographic Information System, or its
successor agency.
   (C)   Permit required: applications and fees.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
section) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any village right-of-way which changes the location of the facility, adds a new
facility, disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this section), or materially
increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above,
along, under across or within the right-of-way, without first filing an
application with the Village Engineer and obtaining a permit from the village
therefor, except as otherwise provided in this section. No permit shall be
required for installation and maintenance of service connections to customers'
premises where there will be no installations of the right-of-way.
      (2)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
section shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as proprietary or
confidential by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
      (3)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
         (a)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy
numbers;
         (b)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
         (c)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-
mail addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant
with respect to the application;
         (d)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
         (e)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
            1.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the State Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
            2.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature
of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
         (f)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
the location of any existing utilities in the area work is proposed, including
the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and specifications
comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations. Drawings shall be
submitted in all of the following formats: two paper copies, one electronic
copy in .pdf format, and one electronic copy in CAD format;
         (g)   Evidence of insurance as required in division (K) below;
         (h)   Evidence of posting the security fund as required in division
(E) below;
         (i)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
section; and
         (j)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
      (4)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of
utilities. In addition to the requirements of division (C)(3) above, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
         (a)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
         (b)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe
size, design, construction class, and operating pressures;
         (c)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of
the State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
and the Department of Public Health have been satisfied;
         (d)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land
and water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Four Rivers Sanitation Authority
(FRSA) have been satisfied;
         (e)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed;
         (f)   In the case of a telecommunications retailer, a sworn statement
attesting to its status as a telecommunications retailer in relation to the
requested permitted project.
      (5)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire
permit application review period and the construction period authorized by the
permit, any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall
be submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
      (6)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license,
or similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this section
shall be accompanied by a permit fee in the amount of $100 per parcel
containing or abutting the right-of-way, plus any associated engineering fees
incurred by the village for engineer's review of plans and inspection of the
project. No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility
that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law, 35 ILCS 645/15
et seq.
   (D)   Action on permit applications.
      (1)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
Village Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, or the best interests of the village or its residents, the
Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the proposed work conforms
to the requirements of this section and applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall issue a permit therefor as
soon as practicable. In all instances, it is the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
         (a)   Pursuant to 220 ILCS 65/4, a part of the Telephone Company Act,
220 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq., a telecommunications retailer shall notify the
village that it intends to commence work governed by this section for
facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. The notice shall
consist of plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to
demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, as set forth herein, and
shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the village not less
than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not
less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The
Village Engineer shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
         (b)   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either ten
days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer
in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or 25 days
after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of work
involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer may
commence work without obtaining a permit under this section.
         (c)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to division (C) above, the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of division (D)(1) above.
      (3)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law. Applications by a
utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq., shall be deemed
granted 45 days after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by
the village, provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes,
ordinances, and regulations.
   (E)   Security required.
      (1)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form
and in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the later of the following: the completion of the repair
work authorized under the permit or as long as the permittee maintains its
utility within the public right-of-way. The security fund shall serve as
security for:
         (a)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the
requirements of this section;
         (b)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village
occasioned by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the village issued
pursuant to this section; and
         (c)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this section, including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this section to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this section or any other applicable law.
      (2)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village
in the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division shall, at a minimum:
         (a)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
         (b)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the village of any amounts covered by it; and
         (c)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within
the State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
      (3)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient
to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. When the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this division (E)(3) for any single phase.
      (4)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this division, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the
14-day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         (a)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         (b)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
2026 S-17
         (c)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
         (d)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the
village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
security fund.
      (5)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from
the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the
permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division
(E)(3) above.
      (6)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the
village, upon written request for the withdrawal to the village, provided that
any such withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance
required in division (E)(3) above.
      (7)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
section or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of the revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of the costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
      (8)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect
to the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village,
whether reserved by this section or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to the security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
   (F)   Clean-up and restoration.
      (1)   Any person doing any work pursuant to a permit required by this
section shall promptly restore any street surface or other property which he
may injure or tear up. Street surfaces so injured or torn up shall be restored
in accordance with the following specifications:
         (a)   Permanent and semi-permanent street surfaces shall be repaired
to their original state by the person doing the work. Where the excavation is
within the surface area of any street, it shall be backfilled by using sand or
stone screenings in layers not to exceed six inches in depth. Each layer shall
be thoroughly compacted by wetting with water and tamping by the use of ramming
tools or hand tampers.
         (b)   If the surface of the street is concrete, the surface shall be
replaced by using concrete equal in thickness to the original surface and
finished in a manner similar and equal to the original surface. If the original
surface was of a bituminous nature, the surface shall be repaired by using
bituminous patching mixture for a thickness of two inches or the thickness of
the original surface, whichever is greater. The bituminous patching material
shall be smoothed and hand tamped until thoroughly compacted to the line and
grade of the original surface.
         (c)   Any gravel or crushed stone surface shall be backfilled as
described in division (F)(1)(a) above and the street surface repaired by using
the same type of surfacing material to a depth equal to the original street
surface. Aggregate base below the surface shall match the existing thickness.
      (2)   A utility under this section shall remove all excess material and
restore all turf and terrain and other property within ten days after any
portion of the rights-of-way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to
construction or maintenance by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the
village. This includes restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of
roadway surfaces shall be made using materials and methods approved by the
Village Engineer. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the Village Engineer for good cause shown.
   (G)   Liability. Whoever shall injure or tear up for any purpose whatsoever
any pavement of any street, alley, sidewalk, curb or gutter, or any part
thereof, or dig or remove any hole, trench, ditch, drain, sod, stone, curb,
earth, sand or gravel from any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or other public
property shall be responsible and liable to the village for all damages to
persons or property in consequence thereof which the village shall suffer or be
adjudged to pay.
   (H)   Annual registration required. Every utility that occupies right-of-way
within the village shall register on January 1 of each year with the Engineer,
providing the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and
telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf
of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's
facilities in the right-of-way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such
person, and evidence of insurance as required in division (K) below, in the
form of a certificate of insurance, and evidence of the continuing effect of
the security as required in division (E) above.
   (I)   Effect of permit.
      (1)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this section on village rights-of-way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
      (2)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
      (3)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this section prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
      (4)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   (J)   As-built permit drawings.
      (1)   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in
any material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit an as-built set of drawings or plans to the village within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The as-built drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with division (V) below. If the village
denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall either remove the
facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility so that it conforms to
the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor. Drawings shall be
submitted in all of the following formats: two paper copies, one electronic
copy in portable document format (.pdf), and one electronic copy in CAD format.
      (2)   Within 90 days after the completion of the permitted work,
permittee shall submit the as-built drawings to WinGIS in an electronic format
as per WinGIS requirements for submission into the GIS system.
   (K)   Insurance.
      (1)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by
franchise, license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way
or constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
divisions (K)(1)(a) and (b) of this section:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   $5,000,000 for bodily injury or death to each person;
            2.   $5,000,000 for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
            3.   $5,000,000 for all other types of liability;
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits;
         (d)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident;
         (e)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this division (K).
      (2)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this
division (K) may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella
policies. Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over
underlying insurance on a following-form basis such that when any loss covered
by the primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess
or umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
      (3)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this division (K) to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
      (4)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
         (a)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain
the following endorsement:
"It is hereby understood and agreed that this section may not be canceled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the
village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village President of such intent to cancel or
not to renew."
         (b)   Within ten days after receipt by the village of the notice, and
in no event later than ten days prior to the cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this division (K).
      (5)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (K)(1) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (K)(1) above, or the requirements of divisions (K)(2), (3), and
(4) above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division (K)(1) above,
such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-insurer" under the Workers
Compensation Act, 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
      (6)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this division (K) shall not be limited by such insurance policies
or self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
      (7)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this
division (K) shall be affected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by
insurers legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. All
insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A" or better and
of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
   (L)   Indemnification. By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-
of-way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or
alleged to arise out of or result from the negligent, careless or wrongful
acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its
affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the
construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing
or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are
authorized, allowed or prohibited by this section or by a franchise, license,
or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity
obligations hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands,
judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the
negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials,
officers, employees, agents or representatives.
   (M)   Permit suspension and revocation.
      (1)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this section for one or more of the following
reasons:
         (a)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
         (b)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
         (d)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
      (2)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
      (3)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension
from the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
            1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
            2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
            3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
         (b)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division.
      (4)   Stop-work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of
revocation or suspension, the village may issue a stop-work order immediately
upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division
(M)(1) above.
      (5)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
         (a)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(M)(3) above, the village or its designee may, at the option of the village:
            1.   Correct the deficiencies;
            2.   Upon not less than 20 days' notice to the permittee, remove
the subject facilities or equipment; or
            3.   After not less than 30 days' notice to the permittee of
failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the
village.
         (b)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for
all costs of removal.
   (N)   Change of ownership or owner's identity or legal status.
      (1)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this section, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit
be amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right-
of-way.
      (3)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
   (O)   General construction standards.
      (1)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way
shall be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and
regulations; commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles; sound engineering judgment; and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, from time to time:
         (a)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
         (b)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
         (c)   Highway Design Manual;
         (d)   Highway Standards Manual;
         (e)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
         (f)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill.
Admin. Code 545);
         (g)   Flagger's Handbook; and
         (h)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
      (2)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a
discrepancy exists between or among differing principles and standards required
by this section, the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
   (P)   Traffic control.
      (1)   Minimum requirements. The village's minimum requirements for
traffic protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices and this code.
      (2)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
      (3)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there
is minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to division (U) below, the
utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the circumstances.
      (5)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village.
   (Q)   Location of facilities.
      (1)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements
applicable to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities,
regardless of type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of
this division.
         (a)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
         (b)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall
cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way
and shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with
the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin the right-
of-way.
         (c)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
         (d)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be
placed in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-
of-way.
         (e)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use
the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals,
and/or cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for
the particular application.
         (f)   All lines placed, including by not limited to, lines placed by
wireless companies and fiber optic companies, must be at least four feet from
water lines, sewer lines, and storm lines and at least two feet away from other
lines under public rights-of-way within the village.
      (2)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
         (a)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may
be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
            1.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance, including poles, is located
within one foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to
the right-of-way line;
            2.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
            3.   When pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 meters) behind the face
of the curb, where available;
            4.   When pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 meters) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone; and
            5.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway.
         (b)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel
facility may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
            1.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 meters) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
            2.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
            3.   In the case of an underground power or communications line,
the facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and
not more than five feet (1.5 meters) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 meters) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
      (3)   Facilities crossing highways.
         (a)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curblines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
         (b)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
         (c)   90-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
         (d)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            1.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83 Ill.
Admin. Code 305);
            2.   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
            3.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
         (e)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground
power or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
            1.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
            2.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs
is provided in the initial installation.
         (f)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker
at each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR 192.707 (1989)).
      (4)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The
village may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way
that are not highways, rather than within particular highways.
      (5)   Freestanding facilities.
         (a)   The village may restrict the location and size of any
freestanding facility located within a right-of-way.
         (b)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within
a right-of-way to be screened from view.
      (6)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
         (a)   No other existing facilities in the area are located
underground;
         (b)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
         (c)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
      (7)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
         (a)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports,
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
         (b)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
            1.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
            2.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the
highway structure in the transportation system;
            3.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
            4.   The proposed method of attachment;
            5.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
            6.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and
painting;
            7.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
            8.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as
compared to the risk involved.
      (8)   Appearance standards.
         (a)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
         (b)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
   (R)   Construction methods and materials.
      (1)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
         (a)   Boring or jacking.
            1.   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall
be accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
Village Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations
are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected
by barricades and construction fencing. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
            2.   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
            3.   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over
six inches (0.15 meters) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (25 millimeters).
            4.   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six
inches or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
            5.   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line
of any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be
bored under or around the root system.
         (b)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accordance with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
            1.   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer.
            2.   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. When practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. When right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
            3.   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the
drip line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
         (c)   Backfilling.
            1.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
            2.   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Engineer.
         (d)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (R)(1)
(d) above is permitted under division (V) below, the following requirements
shall apply:
            1.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and
compacted as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10
gradation, as designated by the Engineer.
            2.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as
soon as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be
provided immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or
the restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
            3.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
            4.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed in the
last five years, or resurfaced in the last three years, permits shall not be
issued unless such work is determined to be an emergency repair or other work
considered necessary and unforeseen before the time of the reconstruction or
unless a pavement cut is necessary for a J.U.L.I.E. locate.
         (e)   Encasement.
            1.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
            2.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 meters) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
            3.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement
shall be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
            4.   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement
may be eliminated.
            5.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair; and
cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
            6.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
         (f)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                            Minimum Cover
Electric lines                              30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service lines 30 inches (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products                   30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                                  5.5 feet (1.65 m)
 
      (2)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
         (a)   Electric power or communication lines.
            1.   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Admin. Code 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the state commerce commission) entitled Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines, and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
            2.   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication
facilities shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use
of poles shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design
the installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be
allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with
guy guards for maximum visibility.
            3.   Underground facilities.
               a.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
               b.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
                  (I)   The crossing is installed by the use of moles, whip
augers or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
                  (II)   The installation is by the open trench method which is
only permitted prior to roadway construction.
               c.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
            4.   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
         (b)   Underground facilities other than electric power or
communication lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or
communication lines may be installed by:
            1.   The use of moles, whip augers, or other approved methods which
compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
            2.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
            3.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch
lines or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
            4.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
         (c)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192,
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR 192), IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
         (d)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines
within rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard
Code for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B31.4).
         (e)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the requirements of
the current standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in
the state.
         (f)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer. With the approval of the Engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free
area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral
color to blend with the surroundings.
      (3)   Materials.
         (a)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's standard specifications
for road and bridge construction, the requirements of the State Commerce
Commission, or the standards established by other official regulatory agencies
for the appropriate industry.
         (b)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
         (c)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
      (4)   Operational restrictions.
         (a)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion
of the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right-of-way or other property.
         (b)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer when emergency
work is required to restore vital utility services.
         (c)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      (5)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Utility Facilities Damage Prevention
Act, 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
   (S)   Vegetation control.
      (1)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
      (2)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that
is done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is
not performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
         (a)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
         (b)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
      (3)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
      (4)   Chemical use.
         (a)   Except as provided in the division (S)(4)(b) below, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
         (b)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of vegetation
control.
   (T)   Removal, relocation, or modifications of utility facilities.
      (1)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement.
      (2)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
         (b)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
         (c)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this section; or
         (d)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
      (3)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains
the right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the
rights-of-way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
      (4)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within
the rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
90 days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the utility
to remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer determines
that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
   (U)   Maintenance and emergency maintenance.
      (1)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
      (2)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
         (a)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
         (b)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify
the Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
         (c)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
      (3)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the
village a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48
hours after an emergency repair.
   (V)   Variances.
      (1)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or
more of the provisions of this section must do so in writing to the Village
Engineer as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this section from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
      (2)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this section identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
      (3)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
         (a)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility
(such as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         (b)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
      (4)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition
for authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this section, but which carry out the
purposes of this section.
      (5)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Engineer under the provisions of this section shall have the right to appeal to
the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk
within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely decide the
appeal.
   (W)   Enforcement. Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting
any additional or further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of
this chapter.
   (X)   Penalty. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses
to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine
in accordance with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when
the village will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims,
because the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and
this chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2014-31, passed 12-2-14; Am. Ord. 2025-27, passed 9-2-25)
§ 95.06 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (the "Act").
      (2)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This section supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
      (3)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
section to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522
(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153
(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51),
as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide
Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole.
   (C)   Regulation of small wireless facilities.
      (1)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (D)(9) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use.
      (2)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
         (a)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
Collocation Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant's knowledge.
            7.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to
be attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
         (b)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows:
            1.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
            2.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
               a.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application.
               b.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
90th day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this section.
            3.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
               a.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 105 days after the submission of a completed application.
               b.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
120th day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after
the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this section.
            4.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this section.
               a.   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances
or regulations that concern public safety, or the Collocation Requirements and
Conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
               b.   The village shall document the basis for a denial,
including the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the
denial is based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the
day the village denies an application.
               c.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the village's review period.
               d.   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
               e.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
            5.   Pole Attachment Agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole
by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
         (c)   Completeness of Application.
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the village
shall determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant.
If an application is incomplete, the village must specifically identify the
missing information. An application shall be deemed complete if the village
fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all
documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in the village's permit
application form are submitted by the applicant to the village.
            2.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village
sends the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the
missing information.
         (d)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            1.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
            2.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         (e)   Consolidated Applications.
            1.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
            2.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
         (f)   Duration of permits.
            1.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less
than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations
unless the village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the
new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or
any provision, condition or requirement contained in this section.
            2.   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
         (g)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (D)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
section. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
         (a)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         (b)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (c)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (d)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities
on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (a)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (b)   For purposes of this division, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this Collocation Requirements and
Conditions Section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this division.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village, provided the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in §§
152.390 through
152.400 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and
a private property owner that concern design or construction standards
applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-
of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the village and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the village grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (E)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division (C)(2)(a)4. under the section titled
Application Requirements; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (F)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this section authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/18c-7201), Metra Commuter Rail or any
other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in
Section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-102), without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility.
The provisions of this section do not apply to an electric or gas public
utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the facilities are being used,
developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of
Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(i)).
      (4)   For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the
meaning given to that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (220
ILCS 5/3-105). Nothing in this section shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement:
         (a)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
         (b)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this section.
   (G)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable
termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1,
2018, shall comply with this section.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this section for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division.
   (H)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the village
utility pole.
      (2)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (I)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
   (J)   Dispute resolution. The Circuit Court of Winnebago County shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
   (K)   Indemnification. A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the
village harmless against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such
improvements by the wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors
arising out of the rights and privileges granted under this section and the
Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless
against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall
further waive any claims that they may have against the village with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
   (L)   Insurance.
      (1)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own
cost and expense, the following insurance:
         (a)   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against
all risks;
         (b)   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
         (c)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
      (2)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
      (3)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirement required by the village. A wireless
provider that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds
under this section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 2018-33, passed 11-20-18)
§ 95.07 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner or occupier of any lot or part of a
lot abutting a public sidewalk to maintain such sidewalk in good repair.
   (B)   The village’s Department of Public Works may institute a program of
inspection of public sidewalks. If such inspection reveals any sidewalk to be
in a state of disrepair, the Village Clerk shall notify the owner of the
abutting property, in writing, of the location of such sidewalk and the
condition constituting disrepair.
   (C)   The written notice required under division (B) of this section shall
constitute constructive notice to the owner of the abutting property of the
condition of the sidewalk that is identified in the written notice.
   (D)   Upon receipt of notice of sidewalk disrepair, it shall be the duty of
the owner of the property abutting said sidewalk to cause the necessary repairs
or replacement of such sidewalk to be made within 30 days of such notice,
except that if such notice is made after October 15 or before April 15, repairs
will not be required until the following May 15.
   (E)   If the owner of said abutting property fails to make the required
repair or replacement within the specified time, the Department of Public Works
shall report the same to the Village Attorney, who shall initiate procedures
against the appropriate persons or entities as provided by law.
   (F)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the Department of
Public Works from repairing, replacing or removing any public sidewalk found to
be in disrepair. Any costs incurred by the village to repair, replace or remove
any public sidewalk in disrepair shall be reimbursed to the village by the
abutting property owner(s).
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 3-7-23)
CHAPTER 96: PARABOLIC OR DISH-TYPE SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Compliance with chapter required
   
96.03   Satellite antenna location
   
96.04   Antenna size
   
96.05   Application
   
96.06   Construction to meet requirements
   
96.07   Notice
   
96.08   Nuisance; injunction
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARABOLIC OR DISH-TYPE SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA. Any concave, circular
or dish-shaped apparatus capable of receiving transmission of satellite
signals, including communications from local commercial television stations or
by way of cable television.
   USABLE SATELLITE SIGNAL. Any satellite signal which when viewed on a
conventional television set is at least equal in picture quality to that
received from local commercial television stations or by way of cable
television.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The employee designated to perform duties under this
chapter.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. A Board of people appointed to hear and pass upon
applications for special use permits and variations from a strict application
of terms of this chapter, in the manner and subject to the standards set out in
this chapter.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   No parabolic or dish-type satellite television antenna shall be constructed,
erected, altered, maintained or operated on any lot within the village without
complying with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 SATELLITE ANTENNA LOCATION.
   (A)   In any commercial, industrial, two-family or multiple-residential
zone, such antenna may be located anywhere on the lot, except in the front yard
or on the front roof of any structure or be placed in any side contiguous to
residentially zoned property.
   (B)   In a noncommercial or single-family residential zone, subject to
provisions contained herein, such antenna shall be located only in the rear
yard of any lot at least ten feet from the nearest part of the main building on
the same lot and at least ten feet from any rear property line. If a usable
satellite signal cannot be obtained from such rear yard, the antenna may be
located on the side of the property, such structure shall be located at least
ten feet from the side property line, but not on the side adjacent to street or
arterial setback.
   (C)   In the event that a usable satellite signal cannot be obtained by
locating the antenna on the rear or side of the property, such antenna may be
placed on the roof of the dwelling structure, attached or unattached garage,
provided that a proper building permit is obtained prior to such installation.
The permit shall be issued upon showing by the applicant that a usable
satellite signal is not obtainable from any other location on the property, and
provided further that the construction and erection otherwise is in compliance
with the current building and electrical codes, regulations and requirements.
   (D)   All satellite antennas must be permanently mounted; they may be
installed on a portable or moveable device for a ten-day period for the sole
purpose of locating a good usable satellite signal.
   (E)   No satellite antenna shall be installed in a required parking space,
sewer, water or street easement.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.04 ANTENNA SIZE.
   (A)   Subject to §
96.03 in a noncommercial or single-family residential zone, such antenna shall
not exceed 20 feet in height, including a platform or structure upon which the
antenna is mounted or affixed. The antenna may not exceed 15 feet in diameter
in a noncommercial or single-residential zone.
   (B)   All satellite television antennas shall be located and designed with
screening to reduce visual impact from surrounding properties at street level
and from public streets by either a six-foot high wood or masonry fence or by
natural plants or trees at equal minimum height so planted as to provide
maximum screening, except those satellite television antennas located in a
commercial or industrial zoned area, provided that the satellite television
antenna located on such property is not located immediately next to residential
zoned property.
   (C)   Not more than one satellite television antenna shall be allowed in any
noncommercial, single- family residential or two-family residential zone on any
lot less than ½ acre in size.
   (D)   All antennas and the construction and installation thereof shall
conform to applicable building and electrical codes, regulations and
requirements.
   (E)   Antennas shall meet all manufacturers specifications, be of
noncombustible and corrosive- resistant material and be erected in a secure
wind-resistant manner.
   (F)   Every antenna must be adequately grounded for protection against a
direct strike of lightning.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.05 APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall construct, erect or operate a parabolic or dish-type
television antenna without a permit obtained from the village.
   (B)   A written application must be completed by any person wishing to
construct or erect a parabolic or dish-type television antenna and pay the
required fee according to the Building Code.
   (C)   Alterations of the original planned location, size, height and the
like of the parabolic dish-type television antenna shall constitute the
application of another written application and again payment of a required fee
according to the Building Code.
   (D)   If, by compliance with this chapter, it becomes impossible to install
a satellite dish antenna that is capable of receiving adequate usable signals,
the individuals wishing to install a satellite dish antenna may apply to the
Zoning Board of Appeals for waiver or special use permit, so that the
installation of a satellite dish antenna is possible while still minimizing the
impact on the neighborhood and surrounding properties.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.06 CONSTRUCTION TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
   No parabolic or dish-type satellite television antenna shall be made
operable in the village until the Zoning Administrator shall certify in writing
that both construction plans and final construction meet the requirements of
this chapter or waiver, variance or special use permit.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.07 NOTICE.
   No person shall be prosecuted for any violation of this chapter unless such
person persists in such violation more than ten days after written notice from
the Village Zoning Administrator to stop the violation. No action for
injunction shall be brought on behalf of the village under this chapter unless
such person persists in a violation more than ten days after such written
notice.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
§ 96.08 NUISANCE; INJUNCTION.
   Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. In addition to
any other relief provided by this chapter, the Village Attorney may apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation
of any violation of this chapter. The application for relief may include
seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent
injunction.
(Ord. 1985-6, passed 8-5-85)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
      
114.   RAFFLES
      
115.   HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
      
116.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
      
117.   OUTDOOR DINING
      
118.   TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
119.   PEDICABS
CHAPTER 110: MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Rummage, Garage, Yard and Basement Sales
   
110.01   Permit required
   
110.02   Records of permit application
   
110.03   Refusal of permits
   
110.04   Violation
Business Dealers of Junk, Rags and Second-Hand Articles
   
110.30   License
   
110.31   Application
   
110.32   Bond
   
110.33   Automotive vehicles
   
110.34   Fees
   
110.35   Restrictions
   
110.36   Enclosures
   
110.37   Records
   
110.38   Prohibited purchases
   
110.39   Minors
   
110.40   Stolen goods
   
110.41   Hours of purchases
   
110.42   Operating of balers, presses or cutters
Vehicle Sales
   
110.50   Titled vehicle sales
**** OPERATION OF RUMMAGE, GARAGE, YARD AND BASEMENT SALES ****
§ 110.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any individual, group of persons or organization, corporate,
charitable or otherwise, shall sell or offer for sale any second-hand household
goods, clothing or other miscellaneous article of personal property for any
purposes or for the benefit of themselves, their own organization or society at
what is commonly called a rummage, garage, yard or basement sale, they shall
first obtain a permit from the Village Clerk. The permit shall be required
regardless of the place where such sale is held or given, and the permit shall
be issued for a specific address for a period of not longer than four days per
sale, nor more frequently than two times per calendar year.
(Ord. 2000-19, passed 8-21-00)
§ 110.02 RECORDS OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Village Clerk shall maintain records of any and all individuals or
entities applying for permits granting permission to hold rummage, garage, yard
or basement sales and shall issue such permits without fee.
(Ord. 2000-19, passed 8-21-00)
§ 110.03 REFUSAL OF PERMITS.
   In the event that any person, entity or organization applies for or attempts
to obtain a permit to hold a sale contrary to the foregoing terms and
conditions, the Village Clerk shall not issue such permit and shall notify the
Village Board of Trustees of such requests. The Village Board of Trustees under
such circumstances shall have the authority after due consideration of all
pertinent facts to bar such person, entity or organization from obtaining a
permit in the future for the holding of such intermittent or occasional sales
for such period as deemed appropriate by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2000-19, passed 8-21-00)
§ 110.04 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, entity or organization to hold a
rummage, garage, yard or basement sale or any other intermittent or occasional
sale of similar type within the village without first obtaining a permit
regarding same as pursuant to the procedures that are set out above.
(Ord. 2000-19, passed 8-21-00) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** BUSINESS DEALERS OF JUNK, RAGS AND SECOND-HAND ARTICLES ****
§ 110.30 LICENSE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or carry on the business of
keeper of a junk shop, store or yard for the purchase, sale or storage of junk,
rags, paper, bags, cartons, old iron, steel, brass, copper, tin, lead, sacks,
barrels, bottles, tires or batteries, discarded motors, automobiles, trucks,
automobile bodies, truck bodies or farm machinery or equipment or cause to be
collected or gathered by means of any vehicle or otherwise any of the aforesaid
articles or things without first having obtained a license therefor, as herein
provided.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.31 APPLICATION.
   All applications for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the
Village Clerk and shall contain the name of the applicant and, if a
corporation, shall contain the names of the principal officers, the name of the
registered agent and the location of the premises on which it is proposed to
carry on such business, together with the number and description of all
vehicles to be used in such business. Upon the receipt of such application, the
Village Clerk shall immediately refer the same to the Plan Commission of the
village and the Zoning Board of Appeals of the village, and no such application
shall be issued by the Clerk unless and until the application has been approved
for conformity with the Plan Commission ordinance and the zoning code of the
village, as amended. If it shall appear that all the ordinances relating to the
applicant, the subject matter of the license and the premises have been
fulfilled, the Board of Trustees may authorize the Clerk to issue a license to
the applicant authorizing engagement in such business on the premises
designated in the application, upon payment to the Clerk of the fee herein
provided. Renewals of licenses may be had hereunder if the applicant complies
with all the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.32 BOND.
   All applicants for licenses hereunder to operate or carry on the business of
keeper of a junk shop, store or yard shall submit with their application a bond
in the sum of $1,000, with surety or sureties to be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the due observance of all the ordinances of
the village now in force or to be in force with reference to the keeping of a
junk shop, store or yard; provided, however, that the applicant for a license
hereunder to collect or gather by means of any vehicle or otherwise any of the
articles or things mentioned in §
110.30 shall submit with his or her application a bond in the sum of $500, with
surety or sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees and conditioned as
above.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.33 AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLES.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a junk shop, store or yard shall be
construed to include a motor vehicle wrecking or parts business and a motor
vehicle junk yard, defined as any business and any place of storage or deposit,
whether in connection with any other business or not, which displays or in or
upon which there are displayed or exposed to view from a public street two or
more unregistered motor vehicles which are unfit for reconditioning for use on
the public highways or used or stripped parts of motor vehicles or trucks or
old iron or steel, metal, glass or other waste or discarded material which has
been a part or intended to be a part of any motor vehicle, the total of which
parts or materials shall be equal in bulk to one or more motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.34 FEES.
   The annual fee for a license to operate or carry on any business regulated
hereby shall be $250 per year, and in addition, $25 per year for each vehicle
with four or more wheels, not including a trailer of any kind operated in the
furtherance of the business. The annual license fee for operation of a vehicle
with no more than two wheels and propelled by the licensee himself or herself
or to collect or gather any of the articles or things named herein, by hand,
and without the use of any vehicle, shall be $5.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.35 RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued hereunder in violation of the zoning code of the
village nor of the Plan Commission ordinance of the village. No license shall
be issued hereunder to any person not a resident of the village at the time of
making application and who has not been such resident for at least one year
prior to the time of making application for such license.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.36 ENCLOSURES.
   Any person, firm or corporation operating any business or place licensed
hereunder shall keep the premises so licensed in a neat and sanitary condition.
All such premises shall be enclosed by a tight board fence at least seven feet
high which shall be kept in a neatly painted condition and in good repair. No
material used in such business shall be allowed to remain outside such fence.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.37 RECORDS.
   Every person, firm or corporation licensed hereunder to operate or carry on
the business of keeper of a junk shop, store or yard shall keep a permanent
record book in which shall be legibly written at the time of each purchase an
accurate account and description of the article or thing so purchased and the
name and residence of the person from whom such purchase was made. The record
book as well as every article of value purchased in the course of such business
shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of any police officer
of the village.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.38 PROHIBITED PURCHASES.
   No keeper of a junk shop, store or yard or person or persons operating a
vehicle for the collection of junk shall buy or sell any coin of any kind, any
article of gold or silver, any precious or semi-precious stones, any wearing
apparel, any article of household furniture or any implement, tool or utensil
which is in a sound, unbroken or undamaged condition, nor shall such keeper
receive in the course of his or her business any article or thing by way of
pledge or pawn, nor shall he or she loan or advance any sum of money on the
security of such article or thing. The keepers of junk shops, stores or yards
and collectors of junk shall keep and not sell, trade or otherwise dispose of
the articles purchased by them as junk, except waste paper and rags for a
period of ten days from and after the date of such purchase.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.39 MINORS.
   No licensee operating under this subchapter shall purchase any goods,
articles or things whatsoever, except rags, waste paper or bottles from any
minor, without the consent of the parent or guardian of such minor, given in
the presence of the licensee.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.40 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every licensee hereunder shall produce for inspection any article, at all
reasonable hours, upon the premises licensed, at the request of any police
officer of the village.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
§ 110.41 HOURS OF PURCHASES.
   It be unlawful for any licensee hereunder to purchase in the course of such
business any goods, articles or things whatsoever from any person between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day, nor shall any person
gather or cause to be collected or gathered in any way any goods, articles or
things herein named as junk between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on the
following day.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.42 OPERATING OF BALERS, PRESSES OR CUTTERS.
   No licensee hereunder shall operate or allow to be operated upon any
premises licensed hereunder any baler, press or cutter or any other noisome
machinery between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day,
nor shall any such apparatus or machinery be operated on Sundays or any other
legal holiday.
(Ord. 1954-1, passed 1-4-54)
**** VEHICLE SALES ****
§ 110.50 TITLED VEHICLE SALES.
   (A)   Before any person shall allow any titled vehicle, including but not
limited to automobiles, trucks or boats requiring title to transfer ownership,
to be displayed for sale or sold on property within the village which is not
zoned for the sale of vehicles or otherwise covered by a special use permit
allowing for the sale of vehicles, they shall first obtain a permit issued from
and by the village Police Department. The Police Department shall visit the
property site from which vehicles are to be sold and issue said permit on site.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued for a specific address for a period of not
longer than 60 days provided:
      (1)   No more than two permits shall be allowed per calendar year for
each property address;
      (2)   There is only one permit per vehicle;
      (3)   The applicant must provide a copy of the current vehicle title or
certificate of registration;
      (4)   The vehicle must be kept on or adjacent to the primary driveway of
the property;
      (5)   The applicant is an owner and/or an occupant of the property.
   (C)   Permits shall be affixed to the windshield of the vehicles to be
displayed for sale.
   (D)   The Police Department shall be allowed to enter upon the property,
during reasonable hours, for which the permits are issued to inspect the
permits.
   (E)   The Police Department shall maintain records of any persons applying
for a permit as required herein.
   (F)   Any property owner in violation of this section shall be subject to a
fine in the amount of $75.
(Ord. 2003-21, passed 8-21-03)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Identification of licensed machines
   
111.04   Impounding; procedure; redeeming machines; sale
   
111.05   Regulations
   
111.06   Fee doubled for noncompliance
   
111.07   Fine for unlicensed machines
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC MUSICAL INSTRUMENT. Any phonograph, piano player, music box, juke
box or other music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot, crevice or
other opening or by the payment of any price operates or may be operated for
the emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
    SKILL OR AMUSEMENT MACHINES. Any pinball machine, ski-ball machine,
baseball machine, basketball machine, shuffleboard machine, pool table or any
similar type of game or machine manipulated directly or indirectly for the
purpose of amusement or test of skill.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any machine used for the sale of candy, peanuts, soft
drinks, milk beverages, ice, ice cream, dairy products, popcorn, gum, all food
products, cigarettes, cigars, prophylactics or any merchandise sold for more
than five cents.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep or permit to be kept for gain or profit from the
operation within the village any automatic musical instrument, skill or
amusement machine or vending machine without first having obtained a license.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.03 IDENTIFICATION OF LICENSED MACHINES.
   Each machine for which the applicant makes application for a license shall
be identified in a permanent and conspicuous manner with the name, business
address and telephone number of the applicant.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.04 IMPOUNDING; PROCEDURE; REDEEMING MACHINES; SALE.
   Any machines for which licenses are required under the terms of this chapter
are subject to immediate impounding by the Village Clerk, or any agent in the
village employ he or she may designate, if machines are discovered unlicensed
for the license year then current; provided however, that whenever a machine
bears the identification required by this chapter, a five-day written notice by
first class mail addressed according to the identification shall be given to
the operator whose name appears thereon before such machine is impounded. Any
machines so impounded may be redeemed by their owner only upon representation
of evidence of ownership satisfactory to the Village Clerk and upon payment of
$5 per day storage charge per machine, plus any costs incurred by the village
in such impounding, in addition to any other penalties exacted under the terms
of this chapter. The village will in no way be liable for damage to any
machines so impounded while they are in the custody of the village. If any
machine so impounded is not redeemed within 60 days of the impounding, the
Village Clerk, at his or her discretion, may dispose of them at auction sale to
be held one week after the sale is advertised at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village. Any machine so advertised and not sold at
auction may be otherwise disposed of by the Village Clerk in the best interest
of the village.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.05 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No license issued hereunder shall permit the operator of any automatic
musical instrument at any place or in any manner which will disturb the peace
and quiet of persons outside the licensed premises. No lewd or pornographic
selections shall be offered or played on any such instrument.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the President or his or her duly appointed
agent, and he or she is authorized and empowered to inspect and examine all
food or drink or tobacco products being offered for sale by means of automatic
vending machines for the purpose of ascertaining, whether the laws of the state
and of the village in relation to sales from such vending machines are complied
with and that the food, drink or tobacco products so offered for sale has been
kept fresh, clean and wholesome, and it shall be the duty of all persons
operating the vending machines upon the demand of the official for him or her
to furnish to him or her for his or her inspection samples of all food, drink
and tobacco products, which samples may be analyzed by or under the official
and a record of such analysis shall be made and kept in his or her office for
the inspection of the public.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.06 FEE DOUBLED FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   For each machine so operated, the applicant shall pay an annual
license fee payable on the first day of September of each year as follows:
      (1)   Automatic musical instrument:          $25.
      (2)   Skill or amusement machine:          $25.
      (3)   Vending machine:                $25.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay a double fee for any such machine operated
without a permit.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 111.07 FINE FOR UNLICENSED MACHINES.
   The lessee of the premises, or the owner in the event that the premises are
not leased, upon which any unlicensed machine is found shall be presumed to be
the operator of the unlicensed machine. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate any machine regulated by this chapter without a license.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Applications
   
112.22   Term
   
112.23   Bond
   
112.24   Classification and fees
   
112.25   Disposition of fees
   
112.26   Transfer of license
Regulations
   
112.40   Change of location
   
112.41   Sanitary conditions
   
112.42   Persons of non-age
   
112.43   Hours of operation
   
112.44   Restricted sales
   
112.45   Employment
   
112.46   Gambling
   
112.47   Consumption on premises
   
112.48   Revocation
   
112.49   Beer gardens
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquor containing
more than .5% of alcohol by volume which is fit for beverage purposes.
   HOTEL (MOTEL). A building or buildings kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or resident, in which 25 or more rooms
are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or more
public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests.
   SELL OR SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for resale in
any form.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
**** LICENSES ****
§ 112.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for
sale or keep with the intention of selling either by draught, in bottles,
cases, cartons, containers or otherwise in the village, any beer, wine or
alcoholic liquor without first obtaining a license permitting the sale thereof
as herein provided.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be submitted to the Village Clerk
in writing upon the form provided for such purpose by the village and which
will include in part information required by 235 ILCS 5/6-2 et seq., or any
subsequent amendment thereto, to determine the fitness as required thereunder
or as to public good and convenience, a description of the premises and the
location thereof and that the applicant will abide by the laws of the State of
Illinois of the United States and the ordinances of the village in the conduct
of his or her place of business.
   (B)   If the applicant does not comply with the restrictions set forth in
235 ILCS or any subsequent amendments thereof (the reasons specifically
enumerated therein prohibiting the issuance of a license), no license shall be
issued, and any license fee paid with such application shall be returned to the
applicant.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.22 TERM.
   A license shall be issued for a period of one year, from July 1 to June 30
of the succeeding year, and may be renewed only upon proper application as if
for a new license. If applicant does not own the premises described in the
application, a signed copy of a lease valid for the term of the license must
accompany the application.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.23 BOND.
   Before the issuance of any retail license under this chapter, the applicant
shall at the time of filing his or her application execute and deliver to the
village a bond in the penal sum of $500, payable to the village, with a surety
company and sufficient sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned that such applicant shall at all times keep and maintain a good and
orderly establishment and that such applicant shall well and truly pay all
fines, penalties and costs which such applicant may incur for violation of this
chapter or any other ordinance relating to the conduct of his or her business.
The bond shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk, and any violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter or of any ordinance amendatory
thereof, or any breach or violation of any of the other conditions or
provisions of the bond shall result in a forfeiture of the bond and the full
amount of the bond shall be recovered by the village in an action of debt.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.24 CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Authorization. The President and Board of Trustees may, at their
discretion, upon the application of any reputable person, firm or corporation,
authorize the issuance of a license in one of the following classes. Prior to
the issuance of a liquor license, the applicant shall deposit $5,000 with the
village. The deposit shall be placed in the General Fund of the village and is
nonrefundable, unless the initial license is not approved.
   (B)   Class A. This class shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises as well as sales for carriage from the premises
in the original and unbroken packages only. The annual fee for such license
shall be $2,000. Number of licenses permitted: no limitation.
      (1)   Any holder of a Class A license may apply for a Class K license,
which Class K license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate Video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the Class A licensed
establishment. Any person holding a Class K license shall comply with all
provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
      (2)   The annual fee for a Class K License shall be $500 and which fee is
in addition to the annual fee for a Class A license.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for golf courses holding a Class A
liquor license only or holding a Class A and Class K liquor license, said
annual license fees shall be prorated in proportion to the number of months
that the golf course is open to the public for operation. For example, if the
golf course is open to the public for eight months out of the year, the annual
Class A liquor license fee shall be calculated as follows:
$2,000/12 months = $166.67 x 8 months = $1,333.36.
   (C)   Class B. This class shall permit the retail sale for consumption on
the premises by a licensee operating a hotel, as herein defined. The annual fee
for such license shall be $2,000 per building in which the licensee operates
one or more permanent bars. (The joinder of any building by walkway, canopy or
other shelter shall not cause two buildings to be construed as one.) Number of
licenses permitted to issue: no limitation.
      (1)   An application for this Class B license shall also state in its
application the number of bars to be operated and their location; service bars
(those of temporary construction and use) shall be excluded, but their location
must also be stated.
      (2)   Any holder of a Class B license may apply for a Class K license,
which Class K license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the Class B licensed
establishment. Any person holding a Class K license shall comply with all
provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
      (3)   The annual fee for a Class K license shall be $500 and which fee is
in addition to the annual fee for a Class B license.
   (D)   Class C. This class shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages,
including beer in original and unbroken packages only for carriage from the
premises and shall not permit sale for consumption on the premises, except as
provided herein. A Class C license holder may allow for alcoholic liquor taste
testing and consumption within the area of the licensed premises used for
display of package alcoholic liquor. No display, taste testing or consumption
related thereto shall occur outside the area within the licensed premises used
for display of package alcoholic liquor. The annual fee for such license shall
be $2,000. Number of licenses permitted to issue: no limitation.
      (1)   Licensed truck establishment.
         (a)   Any holder of a Class C license may apply for a Class K license
which Class K license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the Class C licensed
establishment, provided such establishment meets all the requirements to be
considered a LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT as defined under the Illinois
Gaming Act (i.e. is a facility:
            1.   That is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience
store,
            2.   With separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor
vehicles,
            3.   That sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month, and
            4.   With parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
         (b)   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES has the same meaning as defined in 625
ILCS 5/18b-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. The requirement of division (A)(1)
(a)3. above may be met by showing that estimated future sales or past sales
average at least 10,000 gallons per month. Any person holding a Class K license
shall comply with all provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
         (c) The annual fee for a Class K License shall be $500 and which fee
is in addition to the annual fee for a Class C License.
      (2)   Liquor room. The holder of a Class C liquor license where the
licensed premises is in excess of 200,000 square feet, shall be required to
limit or confine the display of hard alcohol to a room located within the
licensed premises or to a physically separated area within the licensed
premises, that is capable of being locked so as to render it inaccessible to
customers and other non-employees during non-sales hours. For purposes of this
division, the definition of “hard alcohol” shall not include beer and wine.
      (3)   Convenience store video gaming.
         (a)   A convenience store holder of a Class C license may apply for a
Class K license which Class K license shall also be required in order for the
applicant to have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as
defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1, et seq.) within the
Class C licensed establishment, provided such convenience store establishment
meets all the following requirements:
            1.   The retail sales of only beer and wine for on-premises
consumption in conjunction with video gaming on the premises specified in the
license shall be allowed;
            2.   Video gaming shall not be allowed in a Class C licensed
premises without the licensee additionally obtaining a supplemental Class K
video gaming license;
            3.   The service of beer and wine shall be ancillary to the
operation of a convenience store that holds a valid video gaming license with
the state and the village. The convenience store shall not be advertised or
otherwise held out to be a drinking establishment. No window or any other
signage shall be permitted on the licensed premises or surrounding property
that indicates or advertises that alcoholic beverages are available for
consumption on the licensed premises;
            4.   No window or any other signage shall be permitted on the
licensed premises or surrounding property that indicates or advertises that
video gaming is available on the licensed premises.
            5.   Any area used for on-premises consumption of beer and wine
shall be enclosed in a separate room (the "gaming room"), which shall comply
with the Illinois Accessibility Code and all other applicable codes and
regulations. The gaming room shall be a minimum of 200 square feet, shall be
located in the principal building where the convenience store is located, and
shall have access to one gender-neutral bathroom in the principal building
where the gaming room is located;
            6.   The entrance to the gaming room shall be visible to at least
one employee of the establishment who is over 21 years of age, to ensure that
no persons under 21 years of age are present in the gaming room. Entry to the
gaming room shall only be accessible by patrons who are 21 years of age and
older and the principal, proprietor, an agent, or an employee of the
establishment;
            7.   Beer and wine shall only be served in single-serve sized
bottles and cans;
            8.   Beer and wine service shall only be provided to patrons who
are actively playing on video gaming terminals;
            9.   Beer and wine shall only be consumed on-premises in the gaming
room;
            10.   The establishment must obtain an occupancy/life safety
inspection prior to the start of video gaming operations; and
            11.   The establishment must comply with any and all other federal,
state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances.
         (b)   The annual fee for a Class K License shall be $500 and which fee
is in addition to the annual fee for a Class C License.
         (c)   Not including any licensed truck stop establishment referenced
in division (D)(1) above, the maximum number of convenience store holders of a
Class C license that are allowed to also hold a Class K license within the
village shall be limited to one.
   (E)   Class D. This class shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises of a club, a club being defined in 235 ILCS 5/
1-3.24, or any amendment thereof, provided further that such club shall have
been chartered and continuously in active operation within the village for a
period of at least ten years prior to the date of application for such license.
The annual fee for such license shall be $1,250. Number of licenses permitted
to issue: no limitation.
      (1)   To the extent any holder of a Class D license also qualifies as a
licensed fraternal establishment or a licensed veterans establishment under the
provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act, such holder may apply for a Class
K license, which Class K license shall also be required in order for the
applicant to have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as
defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the
Class D licensed establishment. Any person holding a Class K license shall
comply with all provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
      (2)   The annual fee for a Class K license shall be $500 and which fee is
in addition to the annual fee for a Class D license.
   (F)   Class E. This class shall permit the sale of beer and wine by
restaurants for consumption on the premises only, provided that at least 50% of
the gross receipts of the restaurant shall be from revenue sources other than
the sale of beer and wine. The annual license fee for such license shall be
$2,000. Number of licenses permitted to issue: no limitation.
      (1)   Any holder of a Class E license may apply for a Class K license,
which Class K license shall also be required in order for the applicant to
have, locate, maintain and operate video gaming terminals (as defined under the
Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within the Class E licensed
establishment. Any person holding a Class K license shall comply with all
provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act.
      (2)   The annual fee for a Class K license shall be $500 and which fee is
in addition to the annual fee for a Class E license.
   (G)   Class SE (special event). 
      (1)   This license shall constitute a special and limited license. A
Class SE license shall permit the licensee to purchase alcoholic liquors from
an Illinois licensed distributor (unless the licensee purchases less than $500
of alcoholic liquors for the special event, in which case the licensee may
purchase the alcoholic liquors from a licensed retailer), and authorizes the
licensee to sell and offer for sale, at retail, alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption, but not for resale in any form, and only at the location and on
the specific dates designated for the special event in the license.
      (2)   The Liquor Commissioner may grant a special event license only to
any not-for-profit organization or club such as a church, order or lodge,
veterans organization, civic organization or other similar not-for-profit
organization, authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages approved by the
Liquor Commissioner at any special event, including, but not limited to any
dance, concert, races, runs, walks, block parties, festivals, picnics, or
similar function sponsored by such not-for-profit organization or club. Number
of licenses permitted to issue: no limitation. The following restrictions are
applicable for a special event license:
         (a)   A Class SE license holder shall be entitled to dispense
alcoholic liquor at events on no more than 12 occasions in one license year.
         (b)   A license fee of $25 shall be deposited by the licensee with the
application for said special event license. Sufficient evidence of dram shop
liability insurance must be provided with the applicant's application.
         (c)   All sales and consumption pursuant to the special event license
shall be conducted within an enclosed area and such area shall have controlled
entrances and exits and shall be adequately lighted.
         (d)   Any alcoholic beverages sold pursuant to a special event license
must be consumed within the area described in the license. Applicant shall
submit a site plan of the area where alcoholic beverages will be sold and
consumed with applicant's application.
         (e)   All sales and consumption pursuant to the special event license
shall be conducted only during the hours specified on the license.
         (f)   Proof of receiving a state special event retailer's liquor
license shall be required prior to the event.
   (H)   Class SU (special use permit) license. This license shall allow an
Illinois-licensed liquor retailer to transfer a portion of its inventory
approved by the Liquor Commissioner from its licensed retail premises to a
designated site, and to sell or offer for sale at retail, only at the
designated site, the transferred alcoholic liquor for use and consumption, but
not for resale in any form. Number of licenses permitted to issue: no
limitation. The following restrictions shall be applicable to a special use
permit:
      (1)   A special use permit license must be obtained for each location and
may be granted for the following time periods: one day or less; two or more
days to a maximum of four days per location with no more than four special use
permit licenses being issued to any applicant within one license year.
      (2)   A license fee of $25 per special use permit license shall be
deposited by the licensee with the application for said special use permit
license. Sufficient evidence of dram shop liability insurance must be provided
with the applicant's application.
      (3)   All sales and consumption pursuant to the special use permit
license shall be conducted within an enclosed area and such area shall have
controlled entrances and exits and shall be adequately lighted.
      (4)   Any alcoholic beverages sold pursuant to a special use permit
license shall only be consumed within the area described in the license.
Applicant shall submit a site plan of the area where alcoholic beverages will
be sold and consumed with applicant's application.
      (5)   All sales and consumption pursuant to the special use permit
license shall be conducted only during the hours specified on the license.
      (6)   Proof of receiving a state special use permit liquor license shall
be required prior to the event.
   (I)   Class I. This class shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises as well as sales for carriage from
the premises in the original and unbroken packages only. This license shall be
valid only for the months of July, August, September, October, May and June.
The annual fee for such license shall be $500. Number of licenses permitted: no
limitation.
   (J)   Class J. Shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises only of sidewalk cafés, as defined by Chapter 117
of this Code. All applicants for such sidewalk café liquor license shall have a
valid Class A or Class E liquor license at the time of application for a
sidewalk café liquor license. A Class J liquor license permit shall comply with
all provisions of Chapter 117 including all regulations of §
117.05. The sale, service and consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be
prohibited in a sidewalk café between 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight, except in
conjunction with a meal, as defined by §
117.05. Further, the sale, service and consumption of alcoholic beverages in a
sidewalk café shall be prohibited between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 11:00
a.m. The annual fee for a Class J permit shall be $50.
   (K)   (1)   Class K. Any holder of a Class A, B, D, or E liquor license may
apply for a Class K license, which Class K license shall be required, in order
for the applicant to have, locate, operate, or maintain video gaming terminals
(as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.) within
the Class A, B, D, or E licensed establishment. Any person holding a Class K
license shall comply with all provisions of the Illinois Video Gaming Act. The
annual fee for a Class K license shall be $500 and which fee shall be in
additional to the annual Class A, B, D, E license fee.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for golf courses holding a Class K
liquor license, said annual license fees shall be prorated in proportion to the
number of months that the golf course is open to the public for operation. For
example, if the golf course is open to the public for eight months out of the
year, the annual Class K liquor license fee shall be calculated as follows:
$500/12 months = $41.67 x 8 months = $333.36.
   (L)   Class BB (bar-boutique gaming). 
      (1)   Class BB shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the
premises specified for consumption on the premises only provided the licensed
premises also has, locates, maintains and lawfully operates video gaming
terminals (as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq.) within the Class BB licensed establishment. The annual fee for such
license shall be $3,000. The maximum number of Class BB licenses issued by the
village shall not exceed two at any given time.
      (2)   A Class BB License and the holder thereof, shall be subject to the
following limitations:
         (a)   The licensed premises shall not exceed 2,000 square feet.
         (b)   Live music, DJ, karaoke, and/or juke boxes are prohibited on the
licensed premises. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a music system, operated
solely by the licensee, shall be permitted so long as such system is operated
at such levels so as to not be heard outside of the licensed premises.
         (c)   Licensee shall not be permitted to have a patio or beer garden
of any kind.
         (d)   No alcohol related signs which are visible from the outside of
the licensed premises shall be permitted on the licensed premises.
         (e)   No games, other than the video gaming terminals as defined under
the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., shall be permitted on the
licensed premises, including, but not limited to, pool tables, dartboards, and
shuffle board.
   (M)   Change of class. Any license holder may apply to change its class at
the discretion of the President and the Board of Trustees, providing that all
of the laws of the state and the village ordinances and zoning are complied
with and upon payment of a transfer fee of $500.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 8-18-97; Am. Ord. 2000-18,
passed 7-5-00; Am. Ord. 2002-4, passed 4-2-02; Am. Ord. 2013-19, passed 9-17-
13; Am. Ord. 2015-34, passed 10-6-15; Am. Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-16-19; Am. Ord.
2022-13, passed 6-21-22; Am. Ord. 2022-22, passed 9-6-22; Am. Ord. 2023-6,
passed 3-21-23; Am. Ord. 2023-12, passed 6-6-23; Am. Ord. 2025-12, passed 5-20-
25)
§ 112.25 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees shall be paid to the Clerk at the time of application and shall be
deposited by the Treasurer in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund
as shall have been designated by the Board of Trustees. At the option of the
applicant, the license fee may be paid in two equal installments, one on July l
and one on January 1.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.26 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. The license shall not descend by the laws
of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee, provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee and the trustee of any bankrupt licensee, when such estate
constitutes in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale
of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent or bankrupt, until the expiration of such license, but not longer than
six months after the death or bankruptcy of such licensee. There shall be no
refund or rebate made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period
in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
**** REGULATIONS ****
§ 112.40 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises
described in the application. The location may be changed only upon a written
permit to make such change issued by the Liquor Commissioner. No change of
location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this state and the
ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.41 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, or for the storage of such liquor for such sale
shall be kept clean and in a sanitary condition, shall comply with the health
codes currently in force in the village and shall be equipped with two
sanitary, well-lighted toilets, one for the use of the men and the other for
the use of the women.
   (B)   All persons who shall work under a license issued hereunder shall
annually file a certificate of health with the license application, and it
shall be unlawful to comply or continue the employment of any person who is
afflicted with or who is a carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal
disease; and it shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with, or a
carrier of, any such disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in
any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.42 PERSONS OF NON-AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license or his or her agent or employee to sell, give or deliver any alcoholic
liquor to any person under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years of age
to purchase or to attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain alcoholic liquor, or
to make false statements, or to furnish, present or exhibit any fictitious or
false registration card, identification card or other document indicating that
the person is of the age of 21 years or over or to engage or utilize the
services of any other person, whether for remuneration or not, to procure for
such person any alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his or her agent or employee to
suffer or permit any person under the age of 21 years to be on or remain on a
licensed premises, provided that this division shall not apply to any person of
non-age who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or to any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale or service of other
commodities than alcoholic liquor, and further excepting persons properly
employed by the licensee.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor
child of which he or she may be parent or guardian to violate any provision of
this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
134.11(C), it shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
consume any alcoholic liquor or any other beverages containing alcoholic liquor
or to be under the influence of alcoholic liquor. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to knowingly permit a gathering of two or more persons at a
residence which he or she occupies, where any one or more of the persons is
under 21 years of age and any such person is in possession of or consuming any
beverage containing alcoholic, subject to the provisions of §
134.11(C).
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 2010-19, passed 9-21-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.43 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Any business or establishment licensed under this chapter may sell,
offer for sale, give away or allow alcoholic liquor to be consumed on the
premises if permitted by the particular license between the following hours:
      (1)   Monday through Saturday:         6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. of the next
day;
      (2)   Sunday:               10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. of the next day.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold, offered for sale, given away,
carried out of or consumed by anyone, including the owners and employees
thereof on or in any premises licensed under this chapter on Monday through
Saturday between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.; on Sunday between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.; and on New Year’s Day between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless New Year’s Day is on a Sunday, then the hours
prohibited would be between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.; providing, further,
however, that alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale on Sundays in
original containers with an unbroken seal on any premises licensed under this
chapter for an additional four hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00
a.m.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 1998-24, passed 9-21-98)
§ 112.44 RESTRICTED SALES.
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of 21 years to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   (B)   For the purposes of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his or her agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written
evidence of identity and of the fact that he or she is over the age of 21
years.
   (C)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including but not limited to a motor vehicle
operator’s license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or any identification card issued to a member of the
Armed Forces. Proof that the defendant-licensee, or his or her employee or
agent, demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in
any transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any prosecution therefor or to any proceedings for the suspension
or revocation of any license based thereon.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.45 EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly employ any person in any capacity
whatsoever who has been convicted of a felony.
   (B)   The following minimum ages shall apply for employees in establishments
where alcoholic liquors are sold:
      (1)   Sales in original containers for consumption elsewhere:
            18 years or older;
      (2)   Sales in glasses and cans, but not including the pouring or
         mixing of that alcoholic liquor:                        18 years or
older;
      (3)   Pouring or mixing at a bar which has no access to the general
         public or club members, for example, bars located in kitchens or
         service areas which serve the wait staff of the establishment:
            18 years or older;
      (4)   Pouring or mixing at a bar which has access to the general
         public or club members:                            19 years or older;
                                             provided they are directly
supervised by a person
                                             that has obtained at least the age
of 21 years;
      (5)   Stocking shelves and allied service, employment for usual
         services of a bus person, bell person or chamber maid:            16
years or older;
      (6)   Entertainers:                                 21 years or older.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 1999-11, passed - -99)
§ 112.46 GAMBLING.
   It shall constitute a violation of this chapter to suffer or permit any
person to play for money or other valuable thing at any cards, dice, checks or
with any article or instrument or thing whatsoever which may be used for the
purpose of playing or betting and thereby winning or losing money or any other
thing or article of value or shall suffer or permit any person to bet on any
game others may be playing or shall keep or suffer to be kept in or upon the
premises any implements such as are used in gambling in order that the same may
be used for hire, gain or reward by gambling. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
any licensed premises shall be permitted to have, locate maintain and operate
VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS (as defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.) so long as such Video gaming terminals are duly licensed
pursuant to and in conformance with the Illinois Video Gaming Act and such
location, maintaining and operation of video gaming terminals on the licensed
premises otherwise conforms to all applicable provisions of the Video Gaming
Act.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97; Am. Ord. 2012-9, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2013-19,
passed 9-17-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.47 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   When alcoholic liquor has been purchased for consumption on the premises, it
shall be unlawful to consume such liquor in any other place than the premises
upon which it was purchased.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.48 REVOCATION.
   The President may suspend under statute or revoke any liquor license for the
violation of any provision of this chapter or for the violation of any state
law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor upon immediate notice and
hearing, and such suspension or revocation shall be in addition to any fine
assessed by any court for such violation.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97)
§ 112.49 BEER GARDENS.
   The holder of a liquor license that permits the consumption on the premises
shall be allowed to establish a beer garden, provided that they comply with the
following conditions:
   (A)   Closing hours. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale or the
consumption of any alcoholic liquor within the beer garden located in the
village on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday after the hour of
10:00 p.m. and on Friday and Saturday after the hour of 12:01 a.m.
   (B)   Opening hours. Opening hours shall be no earlier than the opening
hours established in §
112.43.
   (C)   Live entertainment. No live entertainment shall be allowed within the
beer garden.
   (D)   Fencing. The area containing the beer garden shall be entirely fenced
with a solid decorative fence of not less than eight feet in height and no more
than ten feet in height.
   (E)   Entry and exiting. No person may be permitted to enter or exit the
beer garden from the street, sidewalk or outside with the exception of
physically, handicapped persons.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 8-4-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed
   
113.03   Collection of tax by retailers
   
113.04   Returns to department
   
113.05   Resellers
   
113.06   Rebates and exemptions
   
113.07   Effect of future repeal
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires another meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between
each channel termination point within this state, and charges for that portion
of the interstate inter-office channel provided within Illinois. However, GROSS
CHARGES shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
         (a)   The tax imposed by this chapter;
         (b)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 35
ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
         (c)   The tax imposed by Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (d)   911 surcharges; or
         (e)   Charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of
220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, as amended, or any
similar charges added to customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to
rate regulation by the Illinois Commerce Commission for the purpose of
recovering any of the tax liabilities or other amounts specified in those
provisions of the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/9-202, 9-221, 9-222 and 9-
222.1;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under 220 ILCS
5/9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and
during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs;
      (6)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 20 ILCS 686/95 of
the Reimagining Energy and Vehicles in Illinois Act, to the extent of the
exemption and during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity.
      (7)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 35 ILCS 45/110-95
of the Manufacturing Illinois Chips for Real Opportunity (MICRO) Act, to the
extent of the exemption and during the period of time specified by the
Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
      (8)   Charges to entities certified under 20 ILCS 605-1115 to the extent
of the exemption and during the period of time specified by the Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity.
      (9)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly-
owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly-owned subsidiaries or
between wholly-owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (10)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (11)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (12)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to insure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Includes any like
term. Any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, PRIVATE LINE means a
dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end- to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered telecommunications
subject to the tax imposed under this Act. For purposes of this section,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in Section
227 of the Retailers' Occupations Tax Act.
(35 ILCS 635/10) (Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
§ 113.02 SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that
is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
   (c)   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02; Am. Ord. 2004-23, passed 9-20-04)
§ 113.03 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this chapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
§ 113.04 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this chapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-526, Section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement this
Act.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
§ 113.05 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
§ 113.06 REBATES AND EXEMPTIONS
   (A)   To the extent that the municipality’s territory includes part of
another unit of local government or a school district, the municipality may, by
separate ordinance, rebate some or all of the amount of the tax authorized by
this chapter paid by the other unit of local government or school district. Any
such rebate shall be paid by the municipality directly to the other unit of
local government or school district qualifying for the rebate as determined by
the municipality’s ordinance, which shall not be filed with the Department.
   (B)   The municipality may, by separate ordinance, rebate some or all of the
amount of the tax authorized by this chapter paid by persons 65 years of age or
older. Any tax related to such rebate shall be rebated from the municipality
directly to persons qualified for the rebate as determined by the
municipality's ordinance, which shall not be filed with the Department.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
§ 113.07 EFFECT OF FUTURE REPEAL.
   If Public Act 92-0526, entitled the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications
Tax Act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, or if Ord. No.
2002-13 is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then former Ord. No.
2000-23 shall be deemed in full force and as of the date Public Act 92-0526 or
Ord. No. 2002-13 is repealed or becomes ineffective.
(Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-17-02)
CHAPTER 114: RAFFLES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Title
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   License required
   
114.05   Classification of licenses
Qualifications and Applications
   
114.20   Qualifications of applicant
   
114.21   Application; contents for Class A, B and C licenses
   
114.22   Application for Class D and E licenses
   
114.23   Issuance
Operation and Conduct
   
114.35   General restrictions
   
114.36   Manager; fidelity bond
   
114.37   Record keeping of gross receipt; expenses; net proceeds
 
   
114.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 114.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Raffle Ordinance
of Winnebago County.”
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the conduct of
raffles within the unincorporated areas of the county and within the corporate
limits of any municipality that is a party to any intergovernmental cooperation
agreement for raffle licenses with the county.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
defined in this section shall be interpreted in accordance with definitions
contained in the most current edition of Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of the government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for
by the government.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less sums
expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating expenses
incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   NON-PROFIT. Organized, operated and conducted on a not-for-profit basis,
with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the operation.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code of
1961, (720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)) conducted by an organization licensed under this
chapter in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other means, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VALUE OF NON-CASH PRIZES. The retail value of such prizes.
   VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a raffle or sell chances for a
raffle in the county without first having obtained a license pursuant to this
chapter. Licenses for raffles shall be issued only to bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations
which operate without profit to their members, which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license and have had during the entire five-year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objectives and which maintain an
office in this county, or to a non-profit fund raising organization that the
county board determined is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.05 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A: general raffle license. A general raffle license shall permit
the conduct of a raffle with a maximum single cash prize or the maximum retail
value of a single cash prize or the maximum retail value of a single non-cash
prize not exceeding $150,000 and an aggregate maximum value of all cash and
non-cash prizes awarded not exceeding $250,000. Multiple drawings may be held
to award the prizes but all drawings must occur on the same day and at the same
location.
   (B)   Class B: one ticket, multiple raffles license.
      (1)   A Class B license allows up to four raffles to be conducted with
the same raffle tickets. Each ticket shall specify the dates of ticket sales
and the dates of each drawing. Each drawing date shall be considered a separate
raffle and will require a separate license and fee. Each license will allow one
drawing event for the prizes awarded.
      (2)   Although a Class B license allows up to four raffles, the maximum
value of a cash or non- cash prize or prizes awarded to a single winner shall
not exceed $150,000 and the aggregate value of all prizes awarded in all of the
raffles shall not exceed $250,000.
      (3)   The fees for Class A raffle licenses will apply for each of the
licenses secured for Class B raffles.
   (C)   Class C: one time emergency raffle license.
      (1)   A Class C raffle license allows a not-for-profit fund-raising
organization or group, organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
hardship assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering severe financial hardship as a result of an injury, disability,
accident or disaster to conduct one raffle for that purpose.
      (2)   The fee for a Class C license shall be $10 payable to the County
Clerk at the time of application.
   (D)   Class D: 12-month raffle license.
      (1)   A 12-month raffle license shall permit the conduct of a raffle or
raffles, or the sale of chances for a raffle or raffles, in which the maximum
value of all cash or non-cash prizes for a single drawing shall not exceed
$5,000.
      (2)   Class D raffles shall be licensed annually for a 12-month period
commencing on the day the license is approved by the County Board. Such license
shall permit no more than 52 raffles. The aggregate value of all prizes awarded
annually shall not exceed $250,000.
      (3)   The fee for a Class D license shall be $200 payable to the County
Clerk at the time of application. Such 12-month licenses shall not be prorated
as to term or fee.
   (E)   Class E: limited annual raffle license.
      (1)   A limited annual raffle license permits an organization to
regularly conduct raffles among its own membership at a regularly scheduled
organizational meeting. Chances for these raffles may only be sold and the
drawings held on the day of the meeting. The aggregate value of the prizes
awarded at each of these drawings may not exceed $100. Class E raffles shall be
licensed annually on a calendar year basis.
      (2)   The licenses shall permit no more than 60 raffles per year. The
aggregate value of all prizes awarded annually shall not exceed $5,200.
      (3)   The fee for a Class E license shall be $25 payable to the County
Clerk at the time of application. Renewal applications shall be made on or
before November 1 for the following year. Class E licenses shall not be
prorated as to term or fee.
   (F)   Fee not refundable. The application fees are not refundable, even in
the event that the application is rejected by the County Board, or if the
raffle is canceled.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
**** QUALIFICATIONS AND APPLICATIONS ****
§ 114.20 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, religious and veterans organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years or more immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during the entire five-year period
a bona fide membership engaging in and carrying out their objectives or to a
not-for-profit fund raising organization or group that is organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or
group of individuals suffering severe financial hardship as a result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster.
   (B)   The following groups or individuals are ineligible for any raffle
license:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any organization in which a person described in subsections (1),
(2) or (3) of this division (B) has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest
or in which such person is active and employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person described in subsections (1),
(2) or (3) of this division (B) is an officer, director or employee, whether
compensated or not; and
      (6)   Any organization in which a person described in subsections (1),
(2) or (3) of this division (B) is to participate in the management or
operation of a raffle.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.21 APPLICATION; CONTENTS FOR CLASS A, B AND C LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle described in § 26-30
(A), (B) or C, shall file an application with the County Clerk on forms
provided by the County Clerk. Applications must be submitted to the County
Clerk at least ten days prior to the County Board meeting at which approval is
desired.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, social security number and
date of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffle
manager(s) and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of
the raffle(s);
      (4)   The aggregate value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle;
      (5)   The maximum value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The areas in which the raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (9)   The dates raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (10)   The date and location at which winning chances will be determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant or organization, signed by its presiding officer and secretary; and
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.22 APPLICATION FOR CLASS D AND E LICENSES.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to conduct or operate a raffle described in §
26-30(D) and (E) shall file an application with the County Clerk on forms
provided by the County Clerk. Applications must be submitted to the County
Clerk at least ten days prior to the County Board meeting at which approval is
desired.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and type of the organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, social security number and
date of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffle
manager and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle;
      (4)   The location at which the chances are to be sold and the drawing
held;
      (5)   The dates the drawings are to be held;
      (6)   A sworn statement, signed by the presiding officer of the
organization, attesting to its not- for-profit status and length of existence;
      (7)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct;
      (8)   The number of drawings to be held during the 12-month period.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.23 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Review of application; acceptance or rejection. Organizations shall
submit applications to the County Clerk’s office at least 10 days prior to the
County Board meeting at which approval is desired. The County Clerk shall
review all raffle license applications, recommend approval or denial and submit
them to the County Board. The County Board shall, within 30 days from the date
of application, accept or reject a raffle license application. If an
application is accepted, the County Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle
license to the applicant. Chances for each raffle may be issued or sold for a
period of 30 days prior to and including the date winning chances are to be
determined, unless the County Board has specifically authorized a longer period
of time, but in no event longer than 365 days prior to and including the date
winning chances are to be drawn.
   (B)   Contents of license. A raffle license shall show the following, with
respect to each raffle:
      (1)   The area in which raffle chances may be sold or issued;
      (2)   The period of time during which raffle chances may be sold or
issued; and
      (3)   The date and location at which winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   Display. The license shall be prominently displayed at the time and
location of the determination of the wining chances.
   (D)   Validity. Each Class A or Class C license shall be valid for one
raffle. Each Class B license shall be valid for up to four raffles. Each Class
D or Class E license shall be valid for a specific number of raffles to be
conducted during a specified period of time not to exceed one year.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
**** OPERATION AND CONDUCT ****
§ 114.35 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee;
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle;
   (C)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle;
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area determined on the license;
the winning chances may be determined only at the location specified on the
license;
   (F)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued or otherwise transferred for value shall not
exceed $250;
   (G)   No cash prize in excess of $150,000 may be awarded and the value of
all prizes to be awarded shall not exceed $250,000;
   (H)   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon the cost of the chance,
the aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle and the
maximum number of raffle chances to be issued, except as provided below:
      (1)   When raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued or otherwise
transferred only at the time and location at which winning chances will be
determined and only to persons then in attendance;
      (2)   When the raffle chance is also a ticket to an event and a portion
of the cost of the ticket is designated for a dinner, gold or other item of
value to be consumed or used by the purchaser at the event;
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the operation
or conduct of raffles, except with the permission of a parent or guardian. A
person under the age of 18 years may be within the area where winning chances
are being determined only when accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (J)   Raffle drawings must be held on the date and at the location listed on
the raffle license. If a raffle drawing is unable to be held due to an extreme
emergency or a natural disaster, the licensee must seek approval of the County
Board before the drawing can be held on a different date. If a drawing is
canceled due to inadequate sale of raffle tickets or due to some reason other
than an extreme emergency or a natural disaster, the licensee must notify all
ticket purchasers, refund all monies and return all prizes within 30 days. The
cancellation will be reported to the County Clerk with a full explanation.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.36 MANAGER; FIDELITY BOND.
   The operation and conduct of all raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the licensee. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in amount to the aggregate retail value of all prizes to be
awarded in favor of the licensee conditioned upon his or her honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the county not less than 30 days prior to
its cancellation.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.37 RECORD KEEPING OF GROSS RECEIPT; EXPENSES; NET PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized
as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same not-for-profit organization pursuant to the
license therefor issued by the State Department of Revenue and placed in a
separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its raffles. The
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensee.
   (C)   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the county its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required in this section. A report must be turned
in within 30 days of each raffle drawing, with the exception of weekly raffles,
which may be reported once a month.
   (D)   Raffle records shall be preserved for three years, and organizations
shall make available their records relating to the operation of raffles for
public inspection at reasonable times and places.
   (E)   No new raffle licenses will be issued to an organization until all
reports from the organization's previous raffles have been completed and
submitted to the County Clerk's office.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties. Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter shall constitute a violation, and any person, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $750. Each day the violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. In addition, the County Board is authorized to
revoke the license of any Class D licensee that fails to comply with the
reporting requirements of §
114.37(C) in a timely manner.
   (B)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalties in this section prescribed
shall not preclude the state's attorney from instituting appropriate action to
prevent unlawful raffles or to restrain, correct or abate a violation of this
chapter of the conditions of a raffle license issued pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 1998-27, passed 12-21-98)
CHAPTER 115: HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Compliance required
   
115.03   Permit required
   
115.04   Application for permit; approval or denial of application
   
115.05   Liability and indemnification
   
115.06   Compliance with traffic regulations; stands
   
115.07   Sanitation
   
115.08   Carriages; equipment; animals
   
115.09   Revocation of permits
   
115.10   Drivers
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGE. Any vehicle drawn by a horse, donkey, mule or mini-
mule which is designed or intended for use of passengers for hire.
   OPERATE or OPERATION. Operation by the owner or any agent of the owner, or
by any person with the owner's knowledge, consent or permission, express or
implied.
   OWNER. An individual, a firm, a co-partnership, a corporation, a company or
any association of joint stock that owns a horse-drawn carriage.
   PERMIT. The grant by the village to operate a horse-drawn carriage upon the
public streets of the village.
   PERMITEE. An owner of a horse-drawn carriage that has been issued a permit
to operate that horse-drawn carriage upon the public streets of the village.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The operation of horse-drawn carriages within and upon the public streets of
the village shall be subject to the conditions, regulations and restrictions
set forth in this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of operating a horse-drawn carriage in the village unless the
procedures and requirements of this chapter have first been met.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be operated any horse-drawn
carriage upon the public streets of the village where the owner of the carriage
has not been issued a permit. A copy of the permit must be displayed in the
carriage, and available for inspection.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to obtain a permit to operate a horse-drawn
carriage in the village shall submit to the Village Clerk a completed
application which shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and form of business of the
applicant. If the applicant is a corporation, it shall also state the names,
addresses and occupations of its officers, directors and major stockholders and
names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary companies, the date and place
of incorporation, and if incorporated outside the state, whether or not it has
been qualified to do business within the state. If the applicant is a
corporation controlled by another corporation, the names, addresses and
occupations of the officers, directors and major stockholders of the
controlling corporation shall also be stated. If the applicant is a partnership
or other unincorporated association, the names and addresses of each member,
whether active or inactive, shall be set forth, and if one or more partners or
members are corporations, the names and addresses and occupations of such
corporation's officers, directors and major stockholders shall also be stated;
and
      (2)   The trade name, if any, under which the applicant proposes to do
business; and
      (3)   A thorough description, including photographs, of the proposed
horse-drawn carriage business to be operated; the manner in which the applicant
proposes to install, maintain and operate the business; the proposed hours of
operation; proposed location from which the business is to be operated; the
proposed route or routes to be served or utilized, the numbers of horse-drawn
carriages to be operated under the proposed business; and
      (4)   A certificate of soundness of each animal that will be pulling a
permitted carriage issued by a veterinarian licensed in the state, finding such
animal to be free from infectious disease, in good health and fit for carriage
service under this chapter; and
      (5)   An insurance certificate providing that the applicant has met the
insurance requirements of this chapter; and
      (6)   A sworn statement acknowledging that any and all drivers employed
by the applicant shall be safe and experienced in handling of such carriages
and animals and that the animals so used shall be thoroughly broken and
properly restrained. It shall further state that the permittee shall be
responsible for the actions of his or her drivers and animals; and
      (7)   Any such information the village shall at any time demand in order
to reasonably determine whether the request for a permit should be granted.
   (B)   Upon receipt and acceptance of a complete application for a permit,
the Village Clerk shall forward copies of the application to the Village Chief
of Police and the Village Department of Public Works.
   (C)   Any applicant whose application for a permit has been denied may,
within 30 days after the denial, appeal to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Once the application has been approved the Village Clerk shall issue a
permit to the applicant upon payment of a $25 fee for each permit. The permit
shall be valid for one calendar year or partial calendar year which is
remaining at the time of the issuance of permit.
   (E)   No more than ten permits shall be issued and active in the village at
any given time.
   (F)   If a permit issued under this chapter is lost or destroyed the permit
holder may obtain a duplicate upon payment of a $10 service charge.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.05 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A permittee shall pay, and by its acceptance of a permit specifically
agrees to pay, any and all damages or penalties which the village may be
legally required to pay as a result of the permittee's operation or maintenance
of a horse-drawn carriage under this chapter, whether or not the acts or
omissions complained of are authorized, allowed or prohibited by the village.
   (B)   A permittee shall also pay all expenses incurred by the village in
defending itself with regard to any and all damages and penalties mentioned in
division (A) of this section. These expenses shall include all out-of-pocket
expenses, including a reasonable attorney's fee and the reasonable value of
services rendered by any employee of the village.
   (C)   The permittee shall maintain, throughout the term of the permit,
liability insurance insuring the Village and permittee with regard to all
damages mentioned in division (A) of this section caused by the grantee or its
agents, in the minimum amounts of:
      (1)   Workers and unemployment compensations insurance as provided by the
laws of this state;
      (2)   One hundred thousand dollars for bodily injury or death to any one
person within the limit and $500,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from
any one accident and $100,000 for property damage resulting from any one
accident.
   (D)   The insurance policies obtained by the permittee in compliance with
this section shall be issued by a company or companies acceptable to the
village and a current certificate or certificates of insurance, along with
written evidence of payment of all required premiums, shall be filed and
maintained with the village during the term of the permit. The policies shall
name the village as an additional insured and shall contain a provision that
written notice of cancellation or reduction in coverage of the policy shall be
delivered by registered mail to the village at least 30 days in advance of the
effective date.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.06 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS; STANDS.
   (A) A permittee, having been issued a permit under this chapter to engage in
the business of operating a horse-drawn carriage, shall be subject to all
traffic provisions of this code and all other ordinances, rules and regulations
now in effect in the village or the state and all traffic ordinances, rules and
regulations which may pertain to the operation of horse-drawn carriages,
hereafter enacted or adopted by the village or the state, and such rules and
regulations formulated and promulgated under authority of this chapter.
   (B)   Horse-drawn carriages shall not stand or park upon any street in any
business district at any place other than a designated taxi-cab stand, except
that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any such carriage from
temporarily stopping for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
and unloading passengers, provided that same is conducted in accordance with
other stopping or parking regulations.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.07 SANITATION.
   All permittees shall comply with the following sanitation requirements:
   (A)   All horses, mules and other animals shall be equipped with adequate
devices to prevent manure and other excrement from falling upon the streets of
the village. Any excrement which should fall upon the streets of the village
shall be removed at the expense of the permittee.
   (B)   All animal waste for disposal shall be promptly transported to sites
or facilities legally empowered to accept it for treatment or disposal. The
village reserves the right to approve or disapprove sites taking into account
routes within the village and the rules and regulations of the governmental
body having jurisdiction over said sites and facilities.
   (C)   A permittee shall further comply with all applicable health and
sanitation provisions of the County Health Department and all rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.08 CARRIAGES; EQUIPMENT; ANIMALS.
   (A)   All carriages must be equipped with a step to allow persons to enter
and exit safely. Rubber tires and wheels shall be used on all carriages to
provide for maximum passenger comfort and for consideration of passing public.
   (B)   All animals shall be thoroughly broken, trained to harness and
properly restrained; no animal may be allowed to go untended. All animals shall
be equipped with properly fitting and appropriate equipment for street service,
including properly fitting shoes for street work. Steel shoes must have borium
grabs, and no aluminum shoes will be permitted at any time. In addition,
animals shall have a minimum of 20 minutes of rest for every two hours of heavy
work and shall be offered clean water at least every two hours depending on
weather.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the permittee to immediately remove any
injured, diseased or deceased animal from the streets and to dispose of same
properly.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.09 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever there is a reasonable cause to believe that a permittee is
violating the provisions of this chapter, the Village Clerk may, upon written,
certified notice of the violation to the permittee, suspend the permits issued
to such person until such time as the violations are corrected to the
satisfaction of the village or within a period of 30 days, whichever is less.
If the violation is not corrected within 30 days, the permits will be
automatically revoked. Any permittee whose permits have been revoked under this
division may, within 30 days after the revocation, appeal to the Village Board
of Trustees.
   (B)   If, upon investigation, the Chief of Police finds that the permitee
and/or the driver hired by the permittee to operate a horse-drawn carriage has
violated any provision of this chapter or has been arrested for or convicted of
the following: murder, kidnapping, aggravated battery, burglary, robbery,
sexual battery, prostitution, exposure of sexual organs, lewd, lascivious or
indecent assault or act upon or in the presence of a child, any crime involving
the sale of controlled substance, manslaughter or negligent homicide resulting
from the use of a motor vehicle, then the Village Clerk may immediately revoke
the permit. Any person having his or her permit so revoked may appeal, by
filing notice thereof, with the Village Clerk within 30 days from the time of
such revocation. Such appeal as filed shall not act as superseding until such
time as the Village Board of Trustees shall take final action on such appeal.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
§ 115.10 DRIVERS.
   Drivers of all horse-drawn carriages shall have and keep in full effect a
valid Illinois driver's license. All drivers shall be safe and experienced in
handling of the animals and all equipment.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 4-3-12)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Exemptions
   
116.03   Registry of licenses
   
116.04   Peddlers, solicitors, vendors, itinerant and canvassers; license
required
   
116.05   General restrictions
   
116.06   Vending from vehicle
   
116.07   Solicitation of charitable donations upon public street or highways
prohibited
   
116.08   Fruit and/or vegetable stands license required
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. Any person who travels from place to place within the village by
foot or other conveyance distributing product samples, advertisements,
leaflets, or any item of similar nature or who, for any reason other than
private personal activity, contacts citizens of the village without request,
invitation, or appointment.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person engaged in any business for profit who uses,
leases, or occupies all or part of any structure or vacant lot within the
village on a temporary basis of not more than 120 days. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, those participating at the Rockton River Market or the Art in the
Park craft show shall not be considered to be itinerant merchants.
   PEDDLER. Any person who travels from place to place within any residential
areas of the village by foot or other conveyance, selling for profit or
offering for sale any commodity, article, or service and rendering immediate
delivery thereof.
   SALES VEHICLE. A licensed and registered, enclosed motorized vehicle in
which food products are carried for purposes of retail sale on the streets of
the village and which is equipped with functioning kitchen equipment, including
but not limited to, refrigerators, freezers, and stoves to keep and prepare
such food products in accordance with any and all applicable, federal, state
and local laws, including, but not limited to, health and food safety laws,
regulations, and codes.
   SLOW SIGNAL ARM. A safety arm that can be extended horizontally from the
left or right side of the truck and which is meant to promote pedestrian
safety, similar to the safety arms on school buses. The minimum length of the
slow signal arm shall be equal to the distance between the headlights of the
sales vehicle as measured from the center of each headlight. The bottom of the
slow signal arm shall be approximately 42 inches above the roadway or highway.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place within the residential
areas of the village by foot or other conveyance, selling for profit or
offering for sale any commodity, article, or service, the delivery of which is
not made at the time the sale, subscription, contract, or order is entered
into; or any person seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing
or any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any person, business,
corporation, organization, project, association, or charity.
   VENDING. Retail sale of ice cream, ice milk, frozen dairy products, ice
flavored syrup, confection or any other food or beverage for human consumption
from a sales vehicle for purposes of retail sale of such items on the streets
of the village.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the licensing requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Organizations which have received a letter of determination approving
tax exempt status under Title 26 of the United States Code Section 501(c)(3)
and which, because of their recognized civic, patriotic, philanthropic, or
eleemosynary accomplishments, have received the specific approval of the
President and Board of Trustees to peddle, make solicitations and canvasses
within the village;
   (B)   Persons under the age of 18 years who live within the village who are
peddling, soliciting or canvassing on behalf of or as a member of an
organization which has received a letter of determination approving tax exempt
status under Title 26 of the United States Code Section 501(c)(3);
   (C)   Schools (public or private) or clubs which are recognized and
affiliated with a public or private school, having a campaign programs to
support the public or private school or school club; and
   (D)   Political campaigning.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.03 REGISTRY OF LICENSES.
   The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall maintain a register of each
license issued pursuant to this chapter. This register shall, by license
number, contain complete and accurate information concerning each person who is
granted a license and the purpose and anticipated duration of the activity
licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.04 PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, VENDORS, ITINERANT AND CANVASSERS; LICENSE
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person, company, business, or organization, to engage as a
peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant or canvasser within the village unless a
license is first obtained therefore from the Village Clerk. This includes every
employee, agent, or member of a company, business or organization who is to
participate in any peddling, soliciting, itinerant merchant operations or
canvassing.
   (B)   Application; issuance. Each application for a license to engage as a
peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant or canvasser shall be made on a form to
be provided by the Village Clerk. Each applicant shall submit to a criminal
background check, if the village, in the sole discretion, desires to have such
check performed. All statements made by the applicant upon the application
shall be under oath. The information to be provided on the application by the
applicant shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   The applicant's name, address and telephone number; and to the
extent the applicant is a business, company or corporation, the name, address
and telephone number of each owner, principal, member or shareholder.
      (2)   The age of the applicant.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant.
      (4)   A description, sufficient for identification of the subject matter,
of the type of peddling, soliciting, vending, itinerant merchant operations or
canvassing that the applicant will engage in.
      (5)   The period of time for which such peddling, solicitation, itinerant
merchant operations or canvassing will be conducted.
      (6)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been previously
denied, or had a license issued under this chapter, revoked.
      (7)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
the commission of a felony under the laws of the village, State of Illinois or
any other state or federal laws of the United States.
      (8)   A fingerprint based criminal history conviction report, generated
by the Illinois State Police, other police agency, within the last 6 months.
Costs associated with the report and verifications thereof shall be borne by
the applicant.
      (9)   Any such other information as the Chief of Police and/or Village
Code Enforcement Officer may deem necessary to the process the application.
   (C)   Review of application and grounds for denial.  
      (1)   Upon receipt of a fully completed application by the Village Clerk,
such application shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police, or his/her
designee, and the Village Code Enforcement Officer for review. Upon
consideration of the application and all other relative information, the Chief
of Police and the Village Code Enforcement Officer shall either recommend
approval or denial of the application. Upon the recommendation of approval by
the Chief of Police and the Village Code Enforcement Officer, the Village Clerk
shall notify the applicant of such approval in writing and issue said license
upon payment of all applicable fees by the applicant. Upon the recommendation
of denial by the Chief of Police and/or the Village Code Enforcement Officer,
the Village Clerk shall notify the applicant of such denial in writing.
      (2)   By way of example and not limitation, any falsification of
information by an applicant for any license within the purview of this chapter
shall be prima facie reason for the denial of the license. Further, no license
shall be issued to any applicant who has been convicted of the commission of a
felony within five years of the date of the application, nor to any applicant
who has been convicted of or found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter, nor to any applicant whose license issued under this chapter has
previously been revoked.
      (3)   To the extent an application is denied, the applicant may appeal
such denial to the Village Board of Trustees by filing a written request for
appeal with the Village Clerk. The Village Board shall then consider the matter
and either sustain or overrule the denial of the application.
   (D)   Contents. Each license issued pursuant to this section shall bear an
identifying number and shall reflect the exact and inclusive dates of the
licensed activity and the nature of the activity. Further, each license shall
contain a photograph of the licensee.
   (E)   Fees. The fee for each license to engage as a peddler, solicitor,
itinerant merchant or canvasser shall be $100 per month or $25 per day. Such
fee shall be paid after approval of an application but prior to issuance of
said license.
   (F)   Possession. Each peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant or canvasser
shall have in his or her possession the license issued to him or her pursuant
to this section during the hours that he or she is engaged in that activity and
shall display such license so it can be readily seen at all times.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14; Am. Ord. 2023-18, passed 7-18-23)
§ 116.05 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   All peddlers, solicitors, and canvassers shall:
   (A)   Refrain from trespassing upon private and public properties, except on
designated walks or paths; and
   (B)   Restrict the delivery of pamphlets, literature, or merchandise to
receptacles designated for such deliveries by the tenants, homeowners, or
proprietors, or to entryways, porches and the like and in accordance with any
applicable local, state or federal laws. In no event shall pamphlets,
literature, or merchandise be hurled at doorways, porches, or other entrances
to properties. In all instances, reasonable care shall be taken to protect the
delivered matter from inclement weather.
   (C)   The occupant or occupants of the residence shall make the
determination as to whether solicitors, peddlers, or canvassers shall be, or
shall not be, invited to their respective residences. To the extent the
occupant or occupants of any residence have posted a "No Solicitors" or similar
type sign upon or near the main entrance door of the residence, such solicitor,
peddler or canvasser shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises
without attempting to contact the occupant or occupants of the residence. It
shall be unlawful for any solicitor, peddler or canvasser to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell, knock or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant or occupants of such
residence if a "No Solicitors" or similar type sign has been posted upon or
near the main entrance door of the residence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, corporation, or
organization, whether licensed under this chapter or not, to engage in
solicitation, peddling, or canvassing between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m., Monday through Saturday, or 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.06 VENDING FROM VEHICLE.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct any vending
from any sales vehicle, on any public street or sidewalk in the village, except
as expressly permitted under this section.
   (B)   Equipment required. Any and all vending must be from a sales vehicle
which shall have the following equipment, in addition to any other such
equipment required by state, local, or federal regulation:
      (1)   A slow signal arm that can be extended horizontally from the left
or right side of the vehicle unless the distance between the windshield and the
front bumper of a sales vehicle does not exceed 6 feet in length, in which case
a slow signal arm shall not be required.
      (2)   A convex mirror mounted on the front of the sales vehicle so the
driver in his or her normal seating position can see the area in front of the
truck obscured by the hood.
      (3)   Signs or decals on both the front and rear of the sales vehicle
identifying the vehicle as an ice cream truck, or other food vending vehicle,
and displaying the words "SLOW: CHILDREN CROSSING" in distinctive lettering at
least six inches in height which is visible at 300 feet to the front and rear
in normal sunlight upon a straight level roadway or highway.
      (4)   An outside passenger side mirror that provides the driver with
visibility to the right side and to the rear of the vehicle.
      (5)   A sign or decal that is visible at all times with the business
address and telephone number of the business license holder printed on the side
of the vehicle in letters of not less than two inches.
      (6)   A trash receptacle to dispose of all litter that is generated from
products sold from the vehicle.
   (C)   License required.
      (1)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any vending to occur or sales
vehicle to operate upon the streets of the village unless a license is first
obtained from the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Application; issuance. Each application for a license to operate a
sales vehicle and conduct vending as regulated in this section shall be made on
a form to be provided by the Village Clerk which shall include the information
to be provided under §
116.04(B). Such application shall also indicate the number of sales vehicles
the applicants intends to operate under the license.
      (3)   Criminal history certification.
         (a)   The applicant shall certify that he or she or his or her
employees are in good standing and that there is no criminal issue existing
that would disqualify them from holding this license.
         (b)   The license applicant shall provide to the Chief of Police, as
part of the application, an original, fingerprint based, criminal history
conviction report generated by the Illinois State Police, or other police
agency, within the last six months. The applicant shall be solely responsible
for providing the required report, and shall provide to the Chief of Police a
report for the applicant, and each of its employees who shall be operating the
sales vehicles within the village.
      (4)   Review of application and grounds for denial.  
         (a)   Upon receipt of a fully completed application by the Village
Clerk, such application shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police, or his/her
designee, and the Village Code Enforcement Officer for review. Upon
consideration of the application and all other relative information, the Chief
of Police and Village Code Enforcement Officer shall either recommend approval
or denial of the application. Upon the recommendation of approval by the Chief
of Police and the Village Code Enforcement Officer, the Village Clerk shall
notify the applicant of such approval in writing and issue said license upon
payment of all applicable fees by the applicant. Upon the recommendation of
denial by the Chief of Police and/or Village Code Enforcement Officer, the
Village Clerk shall notify the applicant of such denial in writing.
         (b)   By way of example and not limitation, any falsification of
information by an applicant for any license within the purview of this chapter
shall be prima facie reason for the denial of the license. Further, no license
shall be issued to any applicant who has been convicted of the commission of a
felony within five years of the date of the application, nor to any applicant
who has been convicted of or found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter, nor to any applicant whose license issued under this chapter has
previously been revoked.
         (c)   To the extent an application is denied, the applicant may appeal
such denial to the Village Board of Trustees by filing a written request for
appeal with the Village Clerk. The Village Board shall then consider the matter
and either sustain or overrule the denial of the application.
      (5)   Contents. Each license issued pursuant to this section shall bear
an identifying number and shall reflect the exact and inclusive dates of the
licensed activity and the nature of the activity. Further, each license shall
contain a photograph of the licensee.
      (6)   Fee. The fee for each license shall be $250 per truck per year.
      (7)   Display. Each vendor shall display in a conspicuous manner upon or
within each sales vehicle, a copy of the license issued to him or her pursuant
to this section.
      (8)   Number of licenses. The number of licenses issued by the village
for vending shall be limited to a maximum of three licenses authorizing vending
within the village at any given time.
   (D)   Insurance required.
      (1)   Each sales vehicle regulated in this section that operates within
the village must carry insurance. This shall include, but not be limited to a
$2,000,000 general liability policy.
      (2)   All insurance policies required under this section shall name the
village as an additional insured within the policy.
      (3)   The village must be given 30 days notice of the cancellation of any
policy required under this section. Cancellation or expiration of an insurance
policy required under this division (D) shall automatically revoke the license
granted to the license holder, by the village, under the terms of this section.
   (E)   Employee requirements.
      (1)   All drivers employed to drive a sales vehicle regulated in this
section shall possess a valid Illinois driver's license at all times.
      (2)   All drivers or other employees of the vendor that are to be working
out of the vehicle shall be over the age of 18.
   (F)   Operation of sales vehicles. All sales vehicles shall be operated in
such a manner so as not to interfere with the flow of traffic. Prior to
engaging in sales, the sales vehicle shall be pulled immediately adjacent to
the curb and as far to the right as possible. At no time shall the sales
vehicle be permitted to be "double parked". All sales shall only be made from
the right side of the sales vehicle.
   (G)   Inspection required. Every sales vehicle regulated in this section
shall be inspected annually as required by the State of Illinois, and the
County of Winnebago. A copy of such inspection certificate shall be filed with
the Village Clerk annually.
   (H)   Cleanliness required. The interior and exterior of each sales vehicle
regulated in this section, and all equipment therein shall be kept clean and
sanitary and maintained in good repair at all times.
   (I)   Vending restrictions.
      (1)   Vehicles regulated in this section may only operate between the
calendar dates of May 1 and October 30 of any given year.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, corporation, or
organization, whether licensed under this chapter or not, to engage in vending
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, or 8:00
p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday.
      (3)   Vendors regulated in this section shall only vend on residential
streets and only where the speed limit does not exceed 30 miles per hour. The
village shall provide each vendor with a list of prohibited streets, which may
include certain residential streets. A copy of the same shall be on file at the
Village Clerk's office.
      (4)   No vendor regulated in this section may vend within 500 feet of any
property used as a school from one hour before the regular school day to one
hour after the regular school day when the school is in session.
      (5)   No sales vehicle or vendor regulated in this section may vend
before the vehicle is lawfully parked or stopped.
      (6)   No vehicle or vendor may vend to a person standing in the roadway.
      (7)   A copy of a current, valid Winnebago County Health Department
permit must be on file in the Village Clerk's office and must also be carried
in the vehicle.
      (8)   The driver of a sales vehicle regulated in this section shall not
operate the sales vehicle in reverse in order to make or attempt to make a
sale, nor shall the driver operate the sales vehicle in reverse immediately
before vending.
   (K)   Sound amplification restrictions.
      (1)   All sound amplification equipment used must comply with all local,
state, and federal laws regulating permissible levels of sound.
      (2)   Sound amplification, if used, shall be restricted to the playing of
non-vocal music and the village reserves the right to regulate volume in a
manner to preventing the non-vocal music from being a nuisance or otherwise
disturbing the peace.
      (3)   Sound amplification equipment shall not be operated while the sales
vehicle is stopped or parked, and shall not be operated while the vehicle is
traveling in an area where vending is prohibited under this section.
      (4)   Sound amplification equipment shall not be operated within 500 feet
of hospitals, schools, or churches.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.07 SOLICITATION OF CHARITABLE DONATIONS UPON PUBLIC STREET OR HIGHWAYS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand on a public street or highway for the purpose of
soliciting contributions from the occupant of any vehicle within the village
with the exception that the following organizations shall be permitted to
solicit such charitable donations:
   (A)   Rockton Lions Club, once a year at the intersection of Blackhawk Blvd.
and Main Street.
   (B)   Kiwanis Club, once a year at the intersection of Blackhawk Blvd. and
Main Street.
   (C)   Rockton Fire Protection District, once a year at the intersection of
Blackhawk Blvd. and Main Street.
   (D)   Hononegah High School Wrestling Club, once a year at the intersection
of Blackhawk Blvd. and Main Street.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 6-3-14)
§ 116.08 FRUIT AND/OR VEGETABLE STANDS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, company, business, or
organization to operate a fruit and/or vegetable stand within the village
unless a license is first obtained from the Village Clerk. A fruit and/or
vegetable stand license shall only permit the licensee to sell raw,
unprocessed, whole fruits, vegetables and nuts and no other food items. The
license requirement of this section shall not apply to those participating in
the Rockton River Market or the Art in the Park craft show. For purposes of
this chapter, operators of a fruit and/or vegetable stand shall not be
considered to be itinerant merchants.
   (B)   Application; issuance. Each application for a license to operate a
fruit and/or vegetable stand shall be made on a form to be provided by the
Village Clerk. All statements made by the applicant shall be under oath. The
information to be provided on the application shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number; and to the extent
the applicant is a business, company, corporation or organization, the name,
address and telephone number of each owner, principal, member or shareholder.
      (2)   The date of birth of the applicant.
      (3)   The names, address, telephone number, and date of birth of any and
all persons which will operate the fruit and/or vegetable stand.
      (4)   The location, or locations, of the fruit and/or vegetable stand and
evidence that the owner of the property has granted permission for the fruit
and/or vegetable stand to be located on their property.
      (5)   A statement of whether all the fruit and/or vegetables to be sold
were grown on the applicant’s property (whether owned or leased).
      (6)   The dates and hours that the fruit and/or vegetable stand will be
operated.
      (7)   A statement of whether the applicant has ever previously been
denied or had a license issued under this chapter revoked.
      (8)   A statement as to whether the applicant (or any of its owners,
principals, members or shareholders) has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the village, State of Illinois or any other state
or federal law of the United States.
      (9)   Any such other information as the Chief of Police and/or Village
Code Enforcement Officer may deem necessary to process the application.
   (C)   Review of application and grounds for denial. The process for review
of an application and grounds for denial shall be the same as set forth in §
116.04(C) of this chapter.
   (D)   Contents. Each license issued pursuant to this section shall bear an
identifying number and shall reflect the exact and inclusive dates of the
licensed activity and the nature of the activity.
   (E)   Fees. The fee for a fruit and/or vegetable stand license shall be $25
per month or $5 per day, for each fruit and/or vegetable stand operated by the
licensee. Such fee shall be paid after approval of an application by prior to
issuance of said license.
   (F)   Hours of operation and stands. Fruit and/or vegetable stands shall
only be permitted to be open for operations between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m., Monday through Sunday. All stands shall be maintained by the
licensee in a good, neat, clean and sanitary condition and shall be taken down
at the close of business each day.
   (G)   Possession. Each operator of a fruit and/or vegetable stand shall have
in his or her possession a copy of the license issued pursuant to this section
during the hours that he or she is engaged in the operation of a fruit and/or
vegetable stand and shall display such license so it can be readily seen at all
time.
(Ord. 2016-20, passed 9-6-16)
CHAPTER 117: OUTDOOR DINING
Section
   
117.01   Sidewalk cafés; defined
   
117.02   Purpose
   
117.03   Licenses
   
117.04   Application for permit; context
   
117.05   Regulations pertaining to sidewalk cafés where alcohol is served
   
117.06   Permit conditions
   
117.07   Insurance and indemnification
   
117.08   Signs
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 SIDEWALK CAFÉS; DEFINED.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ shall mean that portion of the public right-of-way kept, used,
maintained and held out to the public as a place where food and drink are
served for consumption on the premises.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
§ 117.02 PURPOSE.
   It is found and declared that sidewalk cafés promote the public interest by:
   (A)   Providing the opportunity for creative, colorful, pedestrian-focused
commercial activities on a day/night limit and seasonable basis;
   (B)   Encouraging commercial activities which add excitement and diversity
to the city;
   (C)   Encouraging the up-grading of store fronts and the development of
compatible and well- designed elements within the city thereby maintaining an
aesthetically pleasing atmosphere; and
   (D)   Promoting land conservation, redevelopment, energy savings and
indirect tax revenue.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
§ 117.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a sidewalk café in the village without first
having obtained a license to do so from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The license year shall commence on April 1 and end the following March
31. There will be a license fee of $50.
   (C)   The record owners or lessees of a property zoned restaurant abutting
the public right-of-way space may, subject to the provisions of this section
and despite any provisions of the village ordinances to the contrary, obtain a
permit to operate a sidewalk café on such space on which their properties abut
as the Village Board determines is not needed for the use of the general
public. For purposes of this section, a restaurant shall be any establishment
which derives 60% or more of its gross income from the sale of food and
nonalcoholic beverages.
   (D)   The initial application shall be accompanied by a scale drawing of the
site showing the location of all trees, poles, furniture, equipment and other
items that will be located in the sidewalk café. The initial application shall
also be accompanied by photographs, pictures from a sales catalog, or detailed
renderings of furniture and equipment being considered for use, with dimensions
and color included. Applications for renewal of existing sidewalk café licenses
must be accompanied by a scale drawing, pictures, and rendering only if the
licensee proposes to change the furniture, furnishings and equipment of the
sidewalk café. No initial application or renewal application shall be approved
unless the applicant has a valid restaurant license.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
§ 117.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; CONTEXT.
   Application for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk upon a form
to be furnished by the village, which application shall set forth the
following:
   (A)   Owner and manager of applicant business;
   (B)   Hours and days of operation;
   (C)   Number of patrons to be accommodated;
   (D)   A statement from a certified public accountant or from a public
accountant supported by appropriate documents and/or records indicating that at
least 60% of the gross receipts of the establishment seeking the permit during
the last tax year prior to the application, were derived from the sale of food
and nonalcoholic beverages;
   (E)   The Village Clerk will review all applications to ensure that each
application complies with all substantive requirements for issuance of a
permit. After approval by the Village Clerk, but before a permit may be issued,
the Village Board must approve the layout plans required to be submitted with
each application in §
117.03. Specifically the types and placement of all barriers and furniture are
subject to approval of the Board, consistent with the provisions of Ord. 1995-
41, regulating the placement of objects upon the village rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 2002-2, passed 4-16-02)
§ 117.05 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SIDEWALK CAFÉS WHERE ALCOHOL IS SERVED.
   (A)   The licensee has a valid retail alcohol beverage license issued by the
village.
   (B)   The alcohol beverage license permits the sale of the type of alcohol
beverages being served in the sidewalk café.
   (C)   Alcoholic beverages are sold and served only to patrons seated at
tables in the sidewalk café.
   (D)   Sidewalk cafés where alcohol is sold shall be totally enclosed by
barriers as described in §
117.06(C), except that an entrance from the adjacent sidewalk and an entrance
from the building of the establishment permitted to operate the café may be
provided for by the establishment.
   (E)   Prohibit the sale, service and consumption of alcohol beverages in the
sidewalk café area between 12:00 midnight and 11:00 a.m.
   (F)   Prohibit the sale, service and consumption of alcohol beverages in the
outdoor café between 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight except in conjunction with a
meal. Alcoholic beverages are sold, served and consumed in conjunction with a
meal if they are served after a meal is ordered and before the table is cleared
of the dishes and tableware on which the meal is served. MEAL does not include
complimentary snacks such as popcorn and potato chips or appetizers.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
§ 117.06 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Permit conditions shall be as follows:
   (A)   The service area for any sidewalk café permitted hereunder shall be no
less than four feet in width when measured toward the street from the side of
the building running parallel to said area to meet ADA code.
   (B)   There may be one entrance to the service area of a sidewalk café, from
the sidewalk adjacent to said area, and there shall be one entrance to said
area from the building of the establishment permitted to operate such sidewalk
café;
   (C)   Except for the entrance required by the preceding section, the service
area of a sidewalk café shall be separated from the surrounding sidewalk, by
either a fixed or movable ornamental railing, fence, or rope measuring no less
than 30 inches and no more than 48 inches in height when measured from the
sidewalk.
   (D)   The licensee shall provide at least four feet of unobstructed sidewalk
along the curb on the north side of Main St. and four feet on the south side of
Main St. There will be four feet from any obstacle such as trees, grates, or
light poles.
   (E)   At the close of the evening, the licensee shall remove all sidewalk
café furniture, furnishings, and equipment from the public sidewalk During the
time that the sidewalk café furniture, furnishings, and equipment are on the
public sidewalk, the licensee shall keep that area sufficiently illuminated so
as to prevent injury to persons using the same.
   (F)   The licensee shall use safe, sturdy, weather-proof furniture,
furnishings, and equipment in the sidewalk café and shall maintain the same in
good repair. The licensee shall also use furniture, furnishings, and equipment
which enhance the aesthetics of the surrounding area or, at minimum, do not
detract therefrom.
   (G)   The licensee shall anchor umbrellas in such a way that sudden bursts
of wind will not lift them out of their holders or blow them over.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 2002-2, passed 4-16-02)
§ 117.07 INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant shall at all times have in full force and effect a
policy of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $300,000 for the injury
or death of any number of persons per occurrence, and $100,000 for property
damage per occurrence, and shall obtain and keep in effect at all times liquor
liability or “dram shop” insurance with liability limits equal to the maximum
recovery permitted by Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 43, Section 135. Such
coverage shall name the village as an additional insured. All such policies and
certificates of insurance shall be issued by companies authorized to do
business in Illinois and shall be approved as to form by the Village Attorney
before the commencement of such use and provided that it cannot be canceled
until ten days' written notice of such cancellation shall have been filed with
the Liquor Commissioner.
      (2)   Any termination or lapse of such insurance will automatically
revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Any applicant who is licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, shall name the
village as a co-insured on any policy of dram shop insurance carried by or
required.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
§ 117.08 SIGNS.
   (A)   No signs shall be allowed in the sidewalk café area except the
following:
      (1)   Table umbrellas with the licensee's business name imprinted
thereon;
      (2)   Portable sandwich board signs consistent in type and size with
those used during licensee's regular indoor business hours.
   (B)   A handheld menu provided to patrons by the licensee or the licensee's
employees shall not be considered a sign. Likewise, tabletop documents such as
wine lists or information pertaining to the licensee's business shall not be
considered signs as long as the documents are not more than 9 inches long and
12 inches wide.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01; Am. Ord. 2002-2, passed 4-16-02)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter is subject to
suspension/revocation of their sidewalk café license/permit.
(Ord. 2001-13, passed 11-20-01)
CHAPTER 118: TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
118.01   Legislative finding and declaration
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   License required
   
118.04   License application
   
118.05   License fee
   
118.06   Prohibited sales and deliveries; signs
   
118.07   Minimum age to sell tobacco
   
118.08   Purchase by minors prohibited
   
118.09   Possession by minors prohibited
   
118.10   Proximity to certain institutions restricted
   
118.11   Certain free distributions prohibited
   
118.12   Vending machines
   
118.13   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
118.14   Suspension or revocation of license; fines, costs
   
118.15   Use of premises after revocation
   
118.16   Penalty for minors
   
118.17   Enforcement and prohibitions
§ 118.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDING AND DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees expressly find that:
      (1)   Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health;
      (2)   There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of
tobacco products causes cancer, heart disease and various other medical
disorders;
      (3)   The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco is similar to addiction to cocaine, and is the most
widespread example of drug dependence in this country;
      (4)   The Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse concluded that
the majority of the 320,000 Americans who die each year from cigarette smoking
become addicted to nicotine as adolescents before the age of legal consent; and
      (5)   The present legislative method of prohibiting the sale of tobacco
products to persons under the age of 21 has proven ineffective in preventing
such persons from using tobacco products.
   (B)   The Mayor and Board of Trustees expressly declare that the enactment
of this chapter directly pertains to, and is in furtherance of, the health,
welfare and safety of the residents of the village, particularly those under 21
years of age.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 7-2-19)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings respectively assigned to them.
   ADMINISTRATION HEARING BOARD. The Administration Committee of the Village
Board of Trustees, consisting of three Village Trustees, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor to act as the ADMINISTRATION HEARING BOARD, and hold public
hearings along with the Mayor or designated agent.
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. Any device not consisting of or containing
tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by
chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by
any other means.
   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE.
      (1)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a
solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
      (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to
be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
      (3)   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine
intended for use in the device. ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes, but is not
limited to, any electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar,
electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar
product or device, and any components or parts that can be used to build the
product or device.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Substances containing tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco and
dipping tobacco, as well as electronic cigarettes and alternative nicotine
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical device that, upon inserting of money, tokens
or any other form of payment, dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2016-18, passed 6-21-16; Am. Ord. 2019-
14, passed 7-2-19)
§ 118.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, give away,
deliver or keep with the intent of selling at retail, giving away or delivering
tobacco products within the village, without having first obtained an annual
tobacco dealer’s license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A special event tobacco dealer's license may be applied for by a
person or business operating a retail tobacco store/business which is not
located within the village. Such special event license shall allow for the one-
day retail sale of tobacco products at special events located within the
village. Any applicant for a special event tobacco dealer's license shall
provide the village with a copy of its current tobacco dealer's license (if
any) from the municipality in which its primary store/business is located as
well as a copy of its current State of Illinois retailer's tobacco license.
Such applicant shall also provide the village with a copy of any background
check performed (if any) as a part of obtaining its tobacco dealer's license
from the municipality in which its primary store/business is located as well as
a copy of any background check performed (if any) as a part of obtaining its
current State of Illinois retailer's tobacco license.
   (C)   If no prior background check has been performed, the village reserves
the right to require an applicant for a special event tobacco license to have a
background check performed as a part of the village's application process. Any
holder of a special event tobacco dealer's license shall comply with any and
all applicable state and federal laws regarding the retail sale of tobacco
products.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2022-24, passed 9-20-22)
§ 118.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a license hereunder shall be in writing to the Village
Clerk, on the application form approved by the village, and shall be processed
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee for an annual tobacco dealer's license shall be
set at $100.
   (B)   The license shall be issued for a period of one year, from July 1 to
June 30 of the succeeding year, and may be renewed only upon proper application
as if for a new license.
   (C)   The license fee for a special event tobacco dealer's license shall be
set at $25 per day.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2022-24, passed 9-20-22; Am. Ord. 2023-
13, passed 6-6-23)
§ 118.06 PROHIBITED SALES AND DELIVERIES; SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the
age of 21 years.
   (B)   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products.
      (1)   Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
“THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER
TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW.”
      (2)   The text of such signs shall be in red letters, at least one inch
high, on a white background.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 7-2-19)
§ 118.07 MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such 1icensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under 16 years of age to sell tobacco products on any licensee
premises. The responsibility of ensuring that there are no sales to minors
belongs to the licensed seller.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.08 PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to purchase
tobacco products, or to misrepresent their identity or age, or to use false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 7-2-19)
§ 118.09 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess any
tobacco products.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 7-2-19; Am. Ord. 2019-
16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 118.10 PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products within 100 feet of any school building or child care
facility.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.11 CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of
selling or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products,
or any employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of such
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right-of-way, park, playground or
other property owned by the village, or in any school district, park, forest
preserve district or public library.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.12 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to use a vending machine to sell or
offer for sale, to give away or to deliver, or to keep with the intent to sell,
give away or deliver, tobacco products.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Every act of omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other
agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if
such act or omission had been committed by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES, COSTS.
   (A)   The Mayor, or designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board shall
be charged with the administration of this chapter.
      (1)   The Mayor, or designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board
may suspend or revoke any license issued under the provision of this chapter,
if they determine that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license, the Mayor, or
designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board may instead levy a fine on
the licensee.
         (a)   Any licensee who violates this chapter is guilty of a petty
offense. For the purposes of this division, the 24-month period shall begin
with the person’s first violation of this chapter. The penalties in this
division are in addition to any other penalties prescribed under the Cigarette
Tax Act (35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) and the Tobacco Products Tax Act of 1995 (35
ILCS 143/Art. 3 et seq.).
         (b)   For the first offense in a 24-month period, the licensee shall
be fined $200 if it does not have a training program that facilitates
compliance with minimum-age tobacco laws and shall be notified in writing of
penalties levied for further violations.
         (c)   For the second offense in a 24-month period, the licensee shall
be fined $400 if it does not have a training program that facilitates
compliance with minimum-age tobacco laws.
         (d)   For the third offense within a 24-month period, the licensee
shall be fined $600 if it does not have a training program that facilitates
compliance with minimum-age tobacco laws.
         (e)   For the fourth or subsequent offense in a 24-month period, the
licensee shall be fined $800 if it does not have a training program that
facilitates compliance with minimum-age tobacco laws.
   (B)   However, no such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee
shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Mayor, or designated agent,
and the Administration Hearing Board, with a seven-day, written notice to the
licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend against
charges contained in such notice. The seven days’ notice shall begin the day
following its delivery by certified mail or personal service.
   (C)   Within seven days after such a hearing, the Mayor, or designated
agent, and Administration Hearing Board shall determine if the license should
be revoked or suspended, or if the licensee should be fined, shall state the
reason for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the
fine, or the period of time the license has been suspended or revoked, and
shall serve a copy of such order upon the licensee within the seven days.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any fine, any licensee determined by the Mayor,
or designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board to have violated any of
the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the village the cost of the hearing
on such violation.
      (2)   The Mayor, or designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board
shall determine the cost incurred by the village for such hearing, including
but not limited to: hearing reporter's fees, the cost of preparing and mailing
notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous expenses, including legal fees,
incurred by the village; or such lesser sum as the Mayor, or designated agent,
and Administration Hearing Board may allow.
   (E)   (1)   The licensee shall pay such costs, as well as such fine, to the
village within 30 days of notification of the costs and/or fine by the Mayor,
or designated agent, and Administration Hearing Board.
      (2)   Failure to pay such costs and/or fine within 30 days of
notification is a violation of this chapter and may be cause for license
suspension or revocation, or the levy of an additional fine.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2019-14, passed 7-2-19)
§ 118.15 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   After any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to the licensee for a period of six months thereafter for the conduct
of business of selling tobacco products as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
§ 118.16 PENALTY FOR MINORS.
   Fines for violations with respect to possession and/or purchase of tobacco
products by persons under 21 years of age shall be as follows:
   (A)   The fine for violation of §
118.08 shall not be less than $50 nor more than $750.
   (B)   The fine for violation of §
118.09 shall not be less than $50 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03; Am. Ord. 2018-32, passed 11-20-18; Am. Ord. 2019-
14, passed 7-2-19; Am Ord. 2019-16, passed 8-6-19)
§ 118.17 ENFORCEMENT AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Possession of tobacco products in a motor vehicle cannot be the sole
basis to stop a motor vehicle; nor can it be the sole basis to search the motor
vehicle.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced from and after its
effective date, February 18, 2003.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 2-18-03)
CHAPTER 119: PEDICABS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Operation
   
119.03   Eligibility requirements
   
119.04   Permit
   
119.05   Fees
   
119.06   Driver requirements
   
119.07   Public passenger services
   
119.08   Pedicab and equipment requirements
   
119.09   General operation
   
119.10   Accidents
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Village Clerk.
   PEDICAB.
      (1)   A bicycle with three or more wheels that transports, or is capable
of transporting, passengers on seats attached to the bicycle, which is operated
by an individual, and is used for transporting passengers for receipt of any
form of consideration; or
      (2)   A bicycle with a singular unarticulated frame, which pulls a device
that transports, or is capable of transporting, passengers on seats attached to
a passenger cab or similar device, which is operated by an individual, and is
used for transporting passengers for receipt of any form of consideration.
   PEDICAB BUSINESS PERMIT. A permit to operate a pedicab business, which is
assigned to the permittee upon completion of all requirements of this chapter
and approval by the Village Board.
   PERMIT STICKER. A sticker issued by the village that must be affixed to the
permitted pedicab.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19)
§ 119.02 OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a pedicab for the purpose of
providing public passenger service within the village without a pedicab
business permit issued in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.03 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   No pedicab business permit shall be issued unless the applicant has shown
proof of the following:
   (A)   A completed application for pedicab permit;
   (B)   (1)   Commercial general liability insurance coverage covering all
claims arising out of the operations or premises of the applicant in the
following limits:
         (a)   General aggregate: $1,000,000;
         (b)   Per occurrence: $1,000,000;
         (c)   Personal injury: $1,000,000;
      (2)   Coverage may be written on a “claims made” or “occurrence” basis.
The village and its directors, officers, employees and agents shall be named as
additional insured on all insurance policies except worker's compensation.
Evidence of coverage for the duration of the permit and a copy of the
additional insured endorsement form must be submitted with the permit
application;
   (C)   A signed indemnification and waiver agreement, signed by the
applicant, promising to hold harmless and defend the village, or any of its
agents, officials and employees, from and against any claims of property
damage, personal injury or death that may result from granting the permit;
   (D)   Payment of the permit and registration fees.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.04 PERMIT.
   (A)   The village will not issue more than 15 total permit stickers or allow
more than five pedicab businesses to operate in the village at any given time.
   (B)   No pedicab business permit holder shall be granted more than three
permit stickers or operate more than three pedicabs in the village. A pedicab
business permit allows the permittee to operate no more than three pedicabs.
   (C)   Existing permit holders shall be given the opportunity to renew their
business permit before issuance of pedicab business permit(s) to new
applicants.
   (D)   The village will accept applications for a pedicab business permit at
any time of the year if licenses are available. The Administrator will collect
all required information and submit a recommendation to issue the permit to the
Village Board for approval if all requirements are met. After the initial
approval by Village Board, the Administrator is authorized to reissue pedicab
business permits on an annual basis.
   (E)   No pedicab business permit holder shall assign his or her permit to
another.
   (F)   A copy of the pedicab permit shall be displayed in each pedicab.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.05 FEES.
   The fees authorized under the provisions of this chapter include an annual
fee of $100 for a pedicab business permit. This fee is for up to three pedicab
permit stickers.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19)
§ 119.06 DRIVER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pedicab drivers shall hold a valid State of Illinois driver’s license.
   (B)   Pedicab drivers must be at least 18 years of age.
   (C)   All pedicab drivers shall be subject to a background check conducted
and approved by the village or its authorized designee.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19)
§ 119.07 PUBLIC PASSENGER SERVICES.
   (A)   Each pedicab shall clearly post the rates within the pedicab.
   (B)   Every pedicab shall clearly post the pedicab company’s name and
telephone number.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19)
§ 119.08 PEDICAB AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every pedicab providing public must display the pedicab permit sticker
issued by the village.
   (B)   Every pedicab shall:
      (1)   For safety reasons, be a bicycle with a singular unarticulated
frame that is directly attached to a passenger cab. Trailer-type pedicabs, best
described as a passenger cab connected to a normal bicycle via a tow bar often
attached to the driver’s seat riser bar, are not allowed;
      (2)   Have hydraulic disc brake systems for the rear wheels;
      (3)   Be maintained to assure that it is mechanically dependable, clean
and safe;
      (4)   Have a battery-operated headlight, capable of projecting a beam of
white light for a distance of 500 feet, permanently affixed to the pedicab.
Such lights may be removable and recharged;
      (5)   Have taillights permanently affixed on the right and the left at
the same level on the rear exterior of the passenger compartment. Taillights
shall be red in color and plainly visible from all distances within 500 feet to
the rear of the pedicab. Such lights may be removable and recharged;
      (6)   Have turn signal indicators;
      (7)   Provide a seat belt for every passenger;
      (8)   Be designed and manufactured so every passenger may enter and exit
without crossing any interior barriers; and
      (9)   Comply with any other rules, regulations or requirements that the
village may require.
   (C)   Each pedicab may have one two-foot by three-foot area for advertising
or other signage purposes.
   (D)   To ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter, pedicabs will be
subject to inspection by the village each year at the time of issuance of the
annual pedicab business permit and pedicab stickers.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.09 GENERAL OPERATION.
   (A)   All pedicabs shall be operated in a safe manner and in conformity with
the regulations of this chapter and all other village traffic and parking
regulations.
   (B)   All pedicabs shall operate according to the provisions in this
chapter, the applicable provisions of the Village Code governing the operation
of bicycles, and all other applicable state and local laws. No pedicab shall be
operated in weather conditions that pose an unreasonable safety risk to the
drivers or passengers of the pedicab, or to other motorists or pedestrians.
   (C)   For the purposes of immediately loading or unloading passengers, a
pedicab may remain standing upon a street if the pedicab is in any legal
parking stall, designated loading zone or any other location that does not
impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic, which is approved by the village as a
part of the permitting process. Otherwise, a pedicab may not be left parked or
standing in specifically parking stalls for purposes of waiting for passengers.
The Village Board, or its designee, may set forth specific additional locations
where pedicabs are allowed to park or stand. No pedicab, while in operation for
the solicitation or transportation of passengers, shall be left unattended by
the pedicab driver for a period of more than 15 minutes at a time, unless
parked in one of those specific locations identified by the village.
   (D)   Pedicab drivers may not provide passenger service on roadways within
the village except as authorized by the village through the permitting process.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.10 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   A pedicab driver shall immediately report any accident or collision in
which he or she is involved while operating a pedicab within the village, which
results in property damage or personal injury of any kind, to the owner of the
pedicab involved in the accident or collision.
   (B)   A pedicab owner whose pedicab is involved in an accident or collision
within the village resulting in property damage or personal injury of any kind
shall, within 48 hours of being informed of the accident or collision, give a
written report thereof to the Administrator.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to have violated a provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $100, nor more than $750. Fines may be imposed in addition
to any other action authorized under this chapter.
   (B)   Any violation of the restrictions and conditions contained herein may
result in the suspension or revocation of the permit by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2019-13, passed 6-18-19)
2020 S-13
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
137.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Intent
   
130.03   Knowledge
   
130.04   Recklessness
   
130.05   Negligence
   
130.06   Attempt
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   ACT. The taking of action or a failure or omission to take action.
(720 ILCS 5/2-2)
   ANOTHER. A person or persons other than the offender.
(720 ILCS 5/2-3)
   CONDUCT. An act or a series of acts, and the accompanying mental state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-4)
   OFFENSE. A violation of a penal statute of this village or state.
(720 ILCS 5/2-12)
§ 130.02 INTENT.
   A person intends, or acts intentionally or with intent, to accomplish a
result or engage in conduct described by the section defining the offense, when
his or her conscious objective or purpose is to accomplish that result or
engage in that conduct.
(720 ILCS 5/4-4)
§ 130.03 KNOWLEDGE.
   (A)   A person knows, or acts knowingly or with knowledge of:
      (1)   The nature or attendant circumstances of his or her conduct,
described by the section defining the offense, when he or she is consciously
aware that his or her conduct is of that nature or that those circumstances
exist. Knowledge of a material fact includes awareness of the substantial
probability that the fact exists.
      (2)   The result of his or her conduct, described by the section defining
the offense, when he or she is consciously aware that that result is
practically certain to be caused by his or her conduct.
   (B)   Conduct performed knowingly or with knowledge is performed willfully,
within the meaning of a statute using the term “willfully”, unless the section
clearly requires another meaning.
   (C)   When the law provides that acting knowingly suffices to establish an
element of an offense, that element also is established if a person acts
intentionally.
(720 ILCS 5/4-5)
§ 130.04 RECKLESSNESS.
   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when that person consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow, described by the section defining the offense, and
that disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. An act performed recklessly
is performed wantonly, within the meaning of a section using the term
“wantonly”, unless the statute clearly requires another meaning.
(720 ILCS 5/4-6)
§ 130.05 NEGLIGENCE.
   A person is negligent, or acts negligently, when that person fails to be
aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or a
result will follow, described by the statute defining the offense, and that
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care that a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(720 ILCS 5/4-7)
§ 130.06 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits the offense of attempt when,
with intent to commit a specific offense, he or she does any act that
constitutes a substantial step toward the commission of that offense.
   (B)   Impossibility. It is not a defense to a charge of attempt that because
of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have been impossible for the
accused to commit the offense attempted.
   (C)   Maximum fine. A person convicted of attempt may be fined not to exceed
the maximum provided for the offense attempted. If such fine exceeds that set
forth in §
130.99 below, however, the village shall enforce said offense under the
provisions of state law.
(720 ILCS 5/8-4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this title for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $750.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES PERTAINING TO PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   (Reserved)
   
131.02   Trespass to land
   
131.03   Damaging village property
   
131.04   Jackrocks
   
131.05   Obtaining property by false pretenses
   
131.06   Theft
   
131.07   Criminal trespass to vehicles
§ 131.01 (RESERVED).
§ 131.02 TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or
she:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building;
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving prior to such
entry notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Presents false documents of falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land;
         (e)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real estate
as required by subsection (l) of Section 15-1505.8 of Article XV of the Code of
Civil Procedures before the date and time set forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock, or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle
(including an off-road vehicle, motorcycle, moped or any other powered two-
wheel vehicle) after receiving, prior to the entry, notice from the owner or
occupant that the entry is forbidden or remains upon or in the area after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (A), this section shall not apply to
being in a building which is open to the public while the building is open to
the public during its normal hours of operation, nor shall this section apply
to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that the
building is still open to the public.
   (B)   (1)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of division (A) if the person has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, including a valid court order as defined by 725 ILCS 5/
112A-3 granting remedy (2) of 725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b), or if a printed or written
notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
main entrance to the land or the forbidden part thereof.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(3), as an alternative to
the posting of real property as set forth in division (B)(1), the owner or
lessee of any real property may post the property by placing identifying purple
marks on trees or posts around the area to be posted. Each purple mark shall
be:
         (a)   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
         (b)   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet six inches high. Posts so marked shall be placed not more
than 36 feet apart and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the
property. Prior to applying a cap or mark which is visible from both aides of a
fence shared by different property owners or lessees, all such owners or
lessees shall concur in the decision to post their own property.
         (c)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be construed to authorize
the owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree
or post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any
applicable law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration,
regulation, restriction, contract, or instrument.
      (3)   Any owner or lessee who marks his or her real property using the
method described in division (B)(2) must also provide notice as described in
division (B)(1). The public of this atate shall be informed of the provisions
of division (B)(2) by the Illinois Department of Agriculture and the Illinois
Department of Natural Resources. These Departments shall conduct an information
campaign for the general public concerning the interpretation and
implementation of division (B)(2). The information shall inform the public
about the marking requirements and the applicability of division (B)(2)
including information regarding the size requirements of the markings as well
as the manner in which the markings shall be displayed. The Departments shall
also include information regarding the requirement that, until the date this
subsection becomes inoperative, any owner or lessee who chooses to mark his or
her property using paint, must also comply with one of the notice requirements
listed in division (B)(1). The Departments may prepare a brochure or may
disseminate the information through agency websites. Non-governmental
organizations including, but not limited to, the Illinois Forestry Association,
Illinois Tree Farm and the Walnut Council may help to disseminate the
information regarding the requirements and applicability of division (B)(2)
based on materials provided by the Departments. This division (B)(3) is
inoperative on and after January 1,2013.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of the owner's
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on such land at the request of or by occupancy, leasing, or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or the owner's agent, nor to anyone
invited by such migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place that person is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
the person beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within any municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate:
         (a)   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least
two years; and
         (b)   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least one year.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (D), BEAUTIFIES means to
landscape, to clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated conditions on, or to
board up windows and doors.
   (E)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages to the
owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property which
that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (F)   Mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee exceptions.
      (1)   A mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing, or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
      (2)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (F) only, ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of the
mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in Section 15-1200.5 of Article XV of the Code
of Civil Procedure.
   (G)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes. For purposes of this division
(G), EMERGENCY means a condition or
circumstance in which an individual is or is reasonably believed by the person
to be in imminent danger of serious bodily harm or in which property is or is
reasonably believed to be in imminent danger of damage or destruction.
   (H)   Division (A)(1)(d) does not apply to a peace officer or other official
of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the performance of his
or her official duties.
   (I)   Sentence. A violation of divisions (A)(1)(a), A(1)(b), (A)(1)(c) or
(A)(1)(d) is a Class B misdemeanor. A violation of division (A)(1)(f) is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (J)   Civil liability. A person may be liable in any civil action for money
damages to the owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as
prohibited under division (A)(1)(f). A person may also be liable to the owner
for court costs and reasonable attorney's fees. The measure of damages shall
be:
      (1)   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in Sections 3.11
and 3.14 of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act;
      (2)   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified the
person to cease trespassing; or
      (3)   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50. If
the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the owner of the
vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly and severally
liable. For the purposes of this division (J):
         LAND includes, but is not limited to, land used for crop land, fallow
land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil nature
preserves and registered areas. LAND does not include driveways or private
roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive.
         OWNER means the person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant.
         VEHICLE has the same meaning as provided under 625 ILCS 5/1-217.
   (K)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to service process under Section 2-202 of the
Code of Civil Procedure; or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the circuit court.
(720 ILCS 5/21-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.03 DAMAGING VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any village property.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage village property
without the village’s consent.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on village land.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on village land or in a village building any
stink bomb or any offensive- smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere
with the use by the village of its land or buildings. (720 ILCS 5/21-1(a))
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including, but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04 JACKROCKS.
   (A)   A person commits a jackrocks violation when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Sells, gives away, manufactures, purchases, or possesses a
jackrock; or
      (2)   Places, tosses, or throws a jackrock on public or private property.
   (B)   As used in this section, JACKROCK means a caltrop or other object
manufactured with one or more rounded or sharpened points, which when placed or
thrown present at least one point at such an angle that it is peculiar to and
designed for use in puncturing or damaging vehicle tires. It does not include a
device designed to puncture or damage the tires of a vehicle driven over it in
a particular direction, if a conspicuous and clearly visible warning is posted
at the device's location, alerting persons to its presence.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession, transfer, or use of
jackrocks by any law enforcement officer in the course of his or her official
duties.
   (D)   A jackrocks violation is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-1.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.05 OBTAINING PROPERTY BY FALSE PRETENSES.
   It is unlawful for any person to obtain possession of any money, goods,
property or any other thing of value by any false proceedings, cheating or by
fraud.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.06 THEFT.
   (A)   Theft in the village is declared to be an offense.
   (B)   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of another;
      (2)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of another;
      (3)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of another;
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or obtaining control over the property under such
circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her to believe that the
property was stolen, together with one of the following:
         (a)   The intent to deprive the owner permanently of the use or
benefit of the property;
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property;
         (c)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of the
use or benefit of the property.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.07 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   A person commits criminal trespass to vehicles when he or she
knowingly and without authority enters any part of or operates any vehicle,
aircraft, watercraft or snowmobile.
   (B)   Criminal trespass to vehicles is a Class A misdemeanor.
(720 ILCS 5/21-2) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Curfew
   
132.03   Loitering
   
132.04   Possession, sale, and use of fireworks
   
132.05   Unreasonable noise
   
132.06   Assault
   
132.07   Battery
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (2)   Enters upon the property of another, and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
      (3)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Children and Family Services under the Abused and Neglected Child
Reporting Act, 325 ILCS 5/4;
      (4)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act, 210 ILCS 45/1-101
et seq., the Specialized Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the ID/DD
Community Care Act;
      (5)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the Police
Department or Fire Department or any privately-owned and operated ambulance
service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical technician-
ambulance, or emergency medical technician-paramedic knowing at the time there
is no reasonable ground for believing that such assistance is required;
      (6)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any public
safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting such a report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the
public; or
      (7)   Calls or texts the number “911” for the purpose of making or
transmitting a false alarm or complaint and reporting information when, at the
time the call, text, or transmission is made, the person knows there is no
reasonable ground for making the call, text, or transmission and further knows
that the call or transmission could result in the emergency response of any
public safety agency.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty imposed as set forth in §
130.99, any person convicted of disorderly conduct shall be ordered by the
court to perform community service, as set forth under the provisions of 720
ILCS 5/26-1.
(720 ILCS 5/26-1(a)(1), (6), (7), (8), (11)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   For other actions constituting the offense of disorderly conduct under state
law, see 720 ILCS 5/26-1
§ 132.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be present at
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway at the
following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian,
or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved by a parent or
legal guardian unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of
this state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate division
(A) above.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person less than 16 years of age to be present at
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway at the
following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian,
or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved by a parent or
legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of
this state authorize a person less than 16 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 11:01 p.m. on Friday and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between 11:01 p.m. Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. the following day.
   (D)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate division
(C) above.
   (E)   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $10 nor
more than $500, except that neither a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq., nor that
person’s legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or
instead of the fine imposed by this section, the court may order a parent,
legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of division (B) or (D)
of this section to perform community service as determined by the court, except
that the legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the court under
the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform community service.
The dates and times established for the performance of community service by the
parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of division
(B) or (D) of this section shall not conflict with the dates and times that the
person is employed in his or her regular occupation.
   (F)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) that the
minor was:
      (1)   Engaged in an emergency involving protection of a person or
property from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial
damage; or
      (2)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from an activity involving
the exercise of the minor’s right of religious freedom, freedom of speech,
right to assemble and petition or any other right protected under the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution or Article 1, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, or both.
   (G)   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation nor make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (F) is present.
(Am. Ord. 2003-15, passed 8-5-03; Am. Ord. 2004-10, passed 5-4-04)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 132.03 LOITERING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      LOITERING. Includes the following activity: remaining idle in essentially
one location and spending time idly in connection therewith; to linger; to
stay; to saunter; to delay; to stand around; and shall also include the
colloquial expression hanging around; moving slowly about; sleeping on streets
or sidewalks, alleys, public ways, parks or other public property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Includes but not limited to the following: all places
commonly known as being distinctively public, such as: public streets, public
restrooms, schools and school grounds, sidewalks, parks, municipal airports,
alleys and buildings; and all places privately owned but open to the public
generally, such as: shopping centers, transportation terminals, retail stores,
movie theaters, office buildings and restaurants.
      SURROUNDING AREA. That area easily and immediately accessible to the
person under observation.
   (B)   Determination of probable cause for alarm or concern. Without
limitation, the following activities and circumstances may be considered in
determining probable cause for alarm or concern:
      (1)   The flight of a person upon the appearance of a police officer;
      (2)   Attempted concealment by a person upon the appearance of a police
officer;
      (3)   The systematic checking by a person of doors, windows or other
means of access to buildings, houses or vehicles;
      (4)   Continuous presence by a person in close proximity to any building,
house, vehicle or any other property or to any other person at any time when
the activity of such person manifests possible unlawful activity, such
continuous presence being for an unreasonable period of time under the
circumstances then existing;
      (5)   The sleeping or living by a person in any motor vehicle or trailer,
located on any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or public alley
or way or any other public place or building, park or other public property;
      (6)   The sleeping of any person on any public street, public highway,
public sidewalk or public alley or way or any other public place or building,
park or other public property;
      (7)   The only exception to subsections (5) and (6) above will be those
locations in any city park or other public facility approved by the public
officials having authority to regulate the use of the public facilities.
   (C)   Loitering; police order to disperse.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone and/or
in consort with others, in a public place, when such loitering is accompanied
by activity or is under circumstances that afford probable cause for alarm or
concern for the safety and well-being of persons or for the security of
property in the surrounding area.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either alone and/or
in consort with others, in a public place in such a manner so as to obstruct
any public street or any other public place or building by hindering or
impeding, or tending to hinder or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of
vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, either along and/or
in consort with others, in a public place in such a manner so as to commit in
or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, alley or public way
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, alley or public way or any
other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress or regress therein, thereof and thereto, and no
person shall, by his or her presence or other means, either alone or in consort
with others, interfere with or interrupt the conduct of business in the offices
located in such buildings.
      (4)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated
in division (C)(1) herein, a police officer or any law enforcement officer
shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to
move on or disperse. Any person who refuses or fails to so move on or disperse
shall be guilty of violation of this section.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed 9-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.04 POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
co-partnership, or corporation to knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for
sale, sett at retail, or use or explode any display fireworks, flame effects,
or consumer fireworks; provided that the village president and Board of
Trustees shall have the power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the
granting of permits for pyrotechnic and consumer displays. (425 ILCS 35/2 is
hereby incorporated by reference as it may be amended from time to time)
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2006-11, passed 9-8-06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.05 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   Findings. The Village Board finds that excessive noise endangers the
physical and emotional health and well-being, interferes with legitimate
business activities, depresses property values, offends the senses, creates a
public nuisance and in other respects reduces the quality of our environment.
The Village Board finds that a significant problem exists in the village
regarding noise that unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of our
neighborhoods.
   (B)   General prohibition. No person shall, at any time, make any noise
ending to unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of any person in the
vicinity thereof.
   (C)   Specific prohibitions. Activities which create noise that tends to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of a person in the vicinity thereof
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Operating a motor vehicle so as to create unreasonably loud noise
by acceleration or deceleration of the vehicle;
      (2)   Using any hammer, power-operated tool, power-driven lawn or garden
maintenance equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Using any musical instrument, radio, television, phonograph,
stereo, cassette player, compact disc player or any sound amplification
equipment if the sound created thereby:
         (a)   Can be heard on residential property across the street from the
premises on which the sound is created; or
         (b)   Can be heard inside the residence or business of others and
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person inside the residence or business; or
         (c)   Can be heard on residential property of another at a distance of
more than 30 feet from the property line of the premises on which the sound is
created.
      (4)   Operating any pump motors, outside hot tub jets or other similar
instruments or devices on a residentially zoned lot where the noise from which
is deemed excessive or offensive by the adjoining property owner.
      (5)   The owning, keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl which by
frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, crowing or making of other
noises shall cause annoyance or disturbance to persons on adjoining property or
within the neighborhood.
      (6)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, singing or the making of any
other loud noise on the public street between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. or the making of any such noise at any time so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any school, place of worship or office
or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence or of any persons in the
vicinity.
   (D)   Occupant’s responsibility for guests. No person in possession or
control of any premises shall permit any other person, animal or fowl to use
the premises while making any noise tending to unreasonably disturb the peace
and quiet of any person in the vicinity of the premises so used.
   (E)   Exemption. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any noise made for the purpose of requesting assistance or warning
against an unsafe condition; or
      (2)   Any emergency vehicle as defined by Illinois state statutes; or
      (3)   Concerts, parades, festivals, fireworks displays and other events
sponsored or authorized by the village; or
      (4)   Air conditioners and heat pumps which are normally located outside
and that are operating within manufacturer’s standards; or
      (5)   Operation of any Village Public Works Department vehicles or
equipment.
   (F)   Penalty. Violators of this section shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $10 nor more than $500 for each occurrence.
   (G)   Enforcement. The police shall be empowered to enforce this section
upon its approval and may be based on their own observation or, as the result
of a signed complaint by a complainant, issue appropriate citations which will
compel appearance at the court of jurisdiction in this matter.
(Ord. 1995-2, passed 1-16-95; Am. Ord. 2023-23, passed 10-17-23)
§ 132.06 ASSAULT.
   It is unlawful for a person to commit assault. A person commits assault
when, without lawful authority, he or she engages in conduct which places
another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. It shall be unlawful
to commit an assault.
(720 ILCS 5/12-1) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.07 BATTERY.
   It is unlawful for a person to commit battery. A person commits battery when
he or she knowingly and intentionally and without legal justification and by
any means causes bodily harm to or makes physical contact of an insulting or
provoking nature with an individual. It is unlawful to commit a battery.
(720 ILCS 5/12-3) (Ord. 1985-3, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
133.01   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee
   
133.02   Refusing to aid an officer
   
133.03   Tampering with public notice
§ 133.01 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one
known to the person to be a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee of any authorized act within his or her official capacity.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION
EMPLOYEE shall mean any person employed to supervise and control inmates
incarcerated in a penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of
correction, police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or
place for the incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses
or awaiting trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a
violation of probation, a violation of parole, a violation of aftercare
release, a violation of mandatory supervised release, or awaiting a hearing or
preliminary hearing on setting the conditions of pretrial release, or who are
sexually dangerous persons or who are sexually violent persons; and FIREFIGHTER
means any individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a regularly
constituted fire department of a municipality or fire protection district who
performs firefighting duties, including but not limited to, the fire chief,
assistant fire chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person, hose person,
pipe person, and any other member of a regularly constituted fire department.
FIREFIGHTER also means a person employed by the Office of the State Fire
Marshal to conduct arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building or
other structure to rescue, or to attempt to rescue, any person.
   (D)   A person shall not be subject to arrest under this section unless
there is an underlying offense for which the person was initially subject to
arrest.
(720 ILCS 5/31-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.02 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   No person, upon command, shall refuse or knowingly fail reasonably to aid a
person known by him or her to be a police officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(720 ILCS 5/31-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.03 TAMPERING WITH PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   A person commits tampering with public notice when he or she knowingly
and without lawful authority alters, destroys, defaces, removes or conceals any
public notice posted according to law, during the time for which the notice was
to remain posted.
   (B)   Tampering with public notice is a petty offense.
(720 ILCS 5/32-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Public indecency
   
134.02   Obscenity
   
134.03   Harmful material
Minors
   
134.10   Contributing to delinquency of child
   
134.11   Illegal possession/drinking of alcoholic beverage as a minor
   
134.12   Providing alcoholic beverages or fraudulent identification to a minor
   
134.13   Truancy from school by persons under 16 years of age
   
134.14   Social host responsibility
 
   
134.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 134.01 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as defined in 720
ILCS 5/12-12; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   PUBLIC PLACE. For purposes of this section, any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   (C)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
(720 ILCS 5/11-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.02 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of such people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Prima facie evidence. The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than three copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (g)) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03 HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. No person, with knowledge that a person is a
child (that is, a person under 18 years of age), or who fails to exercise
reasonable care in ascertaining the true age of a child, shall knowingly
distribute to, send, or cause to be sent to, or exhibit to, or offer to
distribute or exhibit any harmful material to a child.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      (1)   HARMFUL. Material is harmful if, to the average person, applying
contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, that is a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion, which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of such matters, and is material the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
      (2)   MATERIAL. Any writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment.
      (3)   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      (4)   KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter,
or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have
disclosed the contents thereof.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall
be judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the
child to whom the material was offered, distributed, sent, or exhibited, unless
it appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      (2)   In prosecutions under this section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is in fact substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under 18 years of age, provided such
circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational purpose, and it
shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
section that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his or her child any harmful material.
      (3)   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child, shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this section: a document issued by
the federal government or any state, county, or village government or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal
Selective Service Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed
forces.
      (4)   In the event an advertisement of harmful material as defined in
this section culminates in the sale or distribution of harmful material to a
child, under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or similar
means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the child was
by mail, freight, or similar means of transport, it shall be a defense in any
prosecution for a violation of this section that the advertisement contained
the following statement, or a statement substantially similar thereto, and that
the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or she was not under 18
years of age and that the purchaser falsely stated that he or she was not under
18 years of age: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age
to purchase the matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who
falsely states that he or she is not under 18 years of age for the purpose of
obtaining the material advertised herein, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state of Illinois and a violation of §
134.03 of the Village Code of Ordinances.”
   (E)   Child falsifying age. No person under 18 years of age shall falsely
state, either orally or in writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18
years, or present or offer to any person any evidence of age and identity which
is false or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining,
viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful
material.
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Distributing harmful material to a minor, see 720 ILCS 5/11-21
**** MINORS ****
§ 134.10 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF CHILD.
   Any person who knowingly or wilfully causes, aids or encourages any boy or
girl to be or to become a delinquent child, or who knowingly or wilfully does
acts which directly tend to render any such child so delinquent, is guilty of
contributing to the delinquency of children, which is unlawful. Instead of
imposing a punishment, the court may release the defendant from custody on
probation for one year upon his or her entering into recognizance with or
without surety in such sum as the court may direct.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -)
§ 134.11 ILLEGAL POSSESSION/DRINKING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE AS A MINOR.
   (A)   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor
is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such
alcoholic liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may have any alcoholic beverage in
his or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place or in any
place open to the public.
   (C)   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a bona fide religious service or ceremony or the
consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents
or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-19, passed 9-21-10)
§ 134.12 PROVIDING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES OR FRAUDULENT IDENTIFICATION TO A MINOR.
   (A)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except as provided in §
134.11(C).
   (B)   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age
of 21 years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photographic evidence
of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any
person under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any
other person is guilty of violating this code.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-19, passed 9-21-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.13 TRUANCY FROM SCHOOL BY PERSONS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person enrolled in a public, private or
parochial school within the corporate limits of the village to absent himself
or herself from attendance at school without parental permission. Any person
who shall so absent himself or herself shall be guilty of the offense of
truancy and be subject to the penalties set forth herein. Emergency or
unforeseen absence due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the
person so absenting himself or herself from school without parental permission
shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence has substantially
been obtained from the parent and such permission is submitted in writing to
the proper school authorities within 24 hours after such an absence.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 6-2-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.14 SOCIAL HOST RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following sections
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing or mixed with alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer.
      CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle, trailer, watercraft or container operated for
the transportation of persons or property.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of two or more persons who have assembled
together or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      ILLICIT DRUGS. Any drug, substance or compound which is prohibited by
law, including but not limited to, drugs prescribed by a physician which are in
the possession of or used by someone other than the person to whom the drug was
prescribed.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or any association of
one or more individuals.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Includes but is not limited to, any home, yard,
field, farm, land, apartment, condominium, hotel or motel room, or other
dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park, or any other place of assembly,
public or private, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether
occupied as a dwelling or specifically for a party or other social function and
whether owned, leased, rented, or used with or without permission or
compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (B)   Except as otherwise permitted by state law or local ordinance, it
shall be unlawful for any person to permit, allow, host or fail to take
reasonable steps to prevent an event or gathering at his or her place of
residence or other private property, public place, any other premises, or in
any conveyance under his or her control, where illicit drugs or alcoholic
beverages are consumed by any underage person, if such person either knows or
reasonably should have known that such an event or gathering is taking place.
Permitted exceptions to this section shall include events or gatherings
involving the use of alcoholic beverages by underage persons for bona fide
religious ceremonies and/or the consumption of alcoholic beverages by an
underage person exclusively permitted by his or her parent or legal guardian as
permitted by state law, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   It is the duty of any person who permits, allows or hosts an event of
gathering where underage persons will be present, whether at his or her place
of residence or any other private property, public place, any other premises,
or in any conveyance under his or her control, to take all reasonable steps to
prevent the consumption of illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages by an underage
person at the event or gathering.
   (D)   A person who permits, allows or hosts any event or gathering as
described in division (B) or (C) above shall be liable under this section,
regardless of whether that person is present at the event of gathering, unless
that person has taken mitigating steps as described in division (E) below.
   (E)   A person who discovers an event or gathering where underage persons
are consuming illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages, whether at his or her place
of residence or any other private property, public place, any premises, or in
any conveyance under his or her control shall not be in violation of this
section if he or she immediately notifies the Village of Rockton Police
Department or other law enforcement agency of the existence of the event or
gathering. Such notification must be made before any other person contacts the
police about the event or gathering.
(Ord. 2010-20, passed 11-1-10) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of §
134.14 shall be fined not more than $750 for each such violation. Each day on
which, or during which, a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-20, passed 11-1-10)
CHAPTER 135: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Gambling
   
135.03   Keeping a gambling place
   
135.04   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
   
135.05   Video Gaming Act; fee
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine, or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill,
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won, or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment, or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include the following, as more specifically defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)
(1) through (a)(4):
      (1)   Coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical devices;
      (2)   Vending machines;
      (3)   Crane games; and
      (4)   Redemption machines.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale, or some other name.
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token, or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket, or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property, or evidence of debt.
(720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)(1), (2), (3), (4))
§ 135.02 GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling is prohibited under this code. A person commits gambling
when, within the corporate limits of the village, he:
      (1)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in division (B);
      (2)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any
political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (3)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures, or distributes any gambling
device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, as
described in 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument, or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the courses of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment, or election;
      (7)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell, or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell, or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document, or
other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints, or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or foreign
government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games, and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore, or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests;
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the Internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
division (B)(6)(a) and (6)(b) below; or
      (13)   Any other activity which may be defined as GAMBLING pursuant to
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be deemed to
have committed gambling as defined in §
135.01(A) of this Code:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, awards, or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act, by manufacturers, distributors, and terminal operators
licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as BINGO when conducted in accordance with
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.;
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the state in accordance with 20
ILCS 1605/1 et seq. This exemption includes any activity conducted by the
Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the provisions of 20
ILCS 1605/1 et seq. and its rules; or
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in 20
ILCS 1605/7.12;
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division, an ANTIQUE SLOT
MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   Raffles when conducted in accordance with 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.;
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with 230 ILCS 30/1 et
seq.;
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under 230 ILCS 20/1 et
seq.;
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized under 230
ILCS 10/1 et seq.;
      (12)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed veterans
establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.);
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but not payment or purchase is required to participate; and
      (14)   Any other activity which may be excluded from the definition of
GAMBLING pursuant 720 ILCS 5/28-1(b), as amended from time to time.
(Ord.2012-9, passed 6-5-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
   Internet gambling, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(12)
§ 135.03 KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.) or the Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.). Under 720 ILCS 5/28-3, any person who knowingly permits any
premises or property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her
control to be used as a gambling place commits a misdemeanor, and each
subsequent offense is a felony.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the village to be a gambling place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such;
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter; and
      (3)   All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the village
authorizing the serving of food or liquor on such premises may be deemed void
by the Local Liquor Commissioner; and no license, permit or certificate so
cancelled may be reissued for such premises for a period of at least 60 days
thereafter.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 6-5-12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Keeping a gambling place, see 720 ILCS 5/28-3
§ 135.04 SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by village
authorities. As used in this section, a GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot
machine and includes any machine or device constructed for the reception of
money or other thing of value and so constructed as to return or cause someone
to return on chance to the player thereof money, property, or a right to
receive money or property. With the exception of any device designed for
gambling which is incapable of lawful use, no gambling device shall be
forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a property interest in the
device knows of the unlawful use thereof.
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited as contraband to
the county wherein the seizure occurs. Any money or other thing of value
integrally related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the county wherein the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a), (b))
§ 135.05 VIDEO GAMING ACT; FEE.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the provisions of the Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq., as amended from time to time) and to the extent any
provision of the Rockton Code of Ordinances is in conflict herewith, the
provisions of this section shall govern.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall charge a licensing fee for all video gaming
terminals located in establishments within the village, as defined in the Video
Gaming Act, in the amount of $250 per video gaming terminal per year.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for golf courses that have video
gaming terminals, said annual fee per video gaming terminal shall be prorated
in proportion to the number of months that the golf course is open to the
public for operation. For example, if the golf course is open to the public for
eight months out of the year, the annual fee per video gaming terminal shall be
calculated as follows: $250/12 months = $20.83 x 8 months = $166.67.
(Ord. 2012-9, passed 6-5-12; Am. Ord. 2022-19, passed 8-2-22; Am. Ord. 2022-23,
passed 9-6-22)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Drugs and Drug Paraphernalia
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Possession of cannabis
   
136.03   Possession and/or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
136.04   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
136.05   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor
   
136.06   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia
   
136.07   Seizure of drug paraphernalia
   
136.08   Miscellaneous cannabis regulations
Alcoholic Beverages
   
136.15   Consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages; licensing and regulations, see
Chapter 112
**** DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA ****
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment, products and
materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance
in violation of this subchapter or the State of Illinois’ Controlled Substances
Act (720 ILCS 570/102 et seq.), the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/3 et
seq.), Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.), and the
Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act (720 ILCS 635/.01 et seq.). It includes but
is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, dormin,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers, heat-seal machines and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips: Meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs;
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of the Controlled Substances Act;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the Controlled Substances Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, as to a direct violation of the Controlled Substances
Act shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use, or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (C)   The term CANNABIS means marijuana, hashish, and other substances that
are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation
of the plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction. However, CANNABIS does not include the mature stalks
of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it), fiber,
oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act (505 ILCS 89/1 et seq.). CANNABIS also
means concentrate and cannabis-infused products.
   (D)   The term CANNABIS CONCENTRATE means a product derived from cannabis
that is produced by extracting cannabinoids from the plant through the use of
propylene glycol, glycerin, butter, olive oil or other typical cooking fats;
water, ice or dry ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol or isopropanol. The use
of any other solvent is expressly prohibited unless and until it is approved by
the Department of Agriculture.
   (E)   The term CANNABIS FLOWER means marijuana, hashish and other substances
that are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa,
including derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of
cannabis; including raw kief, leaves and buds, but not resin that has been
extracted from any part of the plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin.
   (F)   The term CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT means a beverage, food, oil,
ointment, tincture, topical formulation or another product containing cannabis
that is not intended to be smoked.
   (G)   The term PERSON means a natural individual, firm, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation,
limited liability company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
   (H)   The term POSSESSION LIMIT means the amount of cannabis that may be
possessed at any one time by a person 21 years of age or older or who is a
registered qualifying medical cannabis patient or caregiver under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et
seq.)
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.02 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Legalization. Beginning January 1, 2020, notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the following acts shall not be a criminal or civil offense,
or the basis for seizure or forfeiture of assets under state law for persons
other than natural individuals under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Possession, consumption, use, purchase, obtaining, or transporting
an amount of cannabis for personal use that does not exceed the possession
limit under this subchapter or § 10-10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(410 ILCS 705/10-10);
      (2)   Cultivation of cannabis for personal use in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410
ILCS 705/1 et seq.); and
      (3)   Controlling property if actions that are authorized by this
subchapter or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (“the Act”) occur on the
property in accordance with this subchapter and the Act.
   (B)   Possession limit for residents.  Except if otherwise authorized by
this subchapter or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, for a person who is 21
years of age or older and a resident of this state, the possession limit is as
follows:
      (1)   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   No more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in cannabis-infused
product;
      (3)   Five grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (4)   For registered qualifying patients, any cannabis produced by
cannabis plants grown under § 10-5(b) of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(410 ILCS 705/10-5(b)), provided any amount of cannabis produced in excess of
30 grams of raw cannabis, or its equivalent, must remain secured within the
residence or residential property in which it was grown.
   (C)   Possession limit for non-residents.  For a person who is 21 years of
age or older and who is not a resident of this state, the possession limit is:
      (1)   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate; and
      (3)   Two hundred fifty milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product.
      (4)   The possession limits in division (B) are to be considered
cumulative.
      (5)   No person shall knowingly obtain, seek to obtain, or possess an
amount of cannabis from a dispensing organization or craft grower that would
cause him or her to exceed the possession limit under this subchapter,
including cannabis that is cultivated by a person under this subchapter or the
Act, or obtained under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.).
   (D)   Medicinal cultivation. Beginning January 1, 2020, notwithstanding any
other provision of law, and except as otherwise provided in this subchapter and
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, possessing, consuming, using, purchasing,
obtaining or transporting an amount of cannabis purchased or produced in
accordance with this subchapter that does not exceed the possession limit under
this subchapter or § 10-10(a) of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS
705/10-10(a)), shall not be a basis for seizure or forfeiture of assets under
state law. Cultivating cannabis for personal use is subject to the following
limitations:
      (1)   An Illinois resident, 21 years of age or older, who is a registered
qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) may cultivate cannabis plants, with a
limit of five plants that are more than five inches tall, per household without
a cultivation center or craft grower license. In this section, RESIDENT means a
person who has been domiciled in the State of Illinois for a period of 30 days
before cultivation.
      (2)   Cannabis cultivation must take place in an enclosed locked space.
      (3)   Adult registered qualifying patients may purchase cannabis seeds
from a dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation. Seeds may not be given
or sold to any other person.
      (4)   Cannabis plants shall not be stored or placed in a location where
they are subject to ordinary public view, as defined in this Act. A registered
qualifying patient who cultivates cannabis under this subchapter shall take
reasonable precautions to ensure the plants are secure from unauthorized
access, including unauthorized access by a person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   Cannabis cultivation may occur only on residential property
lawfully in possession of the cultivator or with the consent of the person in
lawful possession of the property. An owner or lessor of residential property
may prohibit the cultivation of cannabis by a lessee.
      (6)   A dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space or piece of property not divided into multiple dwelling units
shall not contain more than five plants at any one time.
      (7)   Cannabis plants may only be tended by registered qualifying
patients who reside at the residence, or their authorized agent attending to
the residence for brief periods, such as when the qualifying patient is
temporarily away from the residence.
      (8)   A registered qualifying patient who cultivates more than the
allowable number of cannabis plants, or who sells or gives away cannabis
plants, cannabis or cannabis-infused products produced under this subchapter,
is liable for penalties as provided by law, including the Cannabis Control Act
(720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.), in addition to loss of home cultivation privileges as
established by rule.
(Ord. 1985-3, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.03 POSSESSION AND/OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person or business to use, or to possess with intent
to use or sell, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
the Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.). Any person who
violates this section, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750. Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary,
beginning January 1, 2020, the use, possession or sale of drug paraphernalia in
relation to the adult use, planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, processing, testing or packaging of cannabis in
accordance and compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS
705/1 et seq.) shall not be a civil or criminal offense.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.04 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or
manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the Controlled Substances Act as amended. Any person
who violates this section upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750. Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary,
beginning January 1, 2020, the manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia in
relation to the adult use, planting, propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, processing, testing or packaging of cannabis in
accordance and compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS
705/1 et seq.) shall not be a civil or criminal offense.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.05 DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO A MINOR.
   Any person 21 years of age or over who violates §
136.04 by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under 21 years of age who
is at least three years his or her junior is guilty of a special offense, and
upon conviction, may be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.06 ADVERTISEMENT OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. Any person who violates this
section, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750.
Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, beginning January
1, 2020, the advertisement of drug paraphernalia in relation to the adult use,
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
processing, testing or packaging of cannabis in accordance and compliance with
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) shall not be a
civil or criminal offense.
   (B)   Cannabis business establishment advertisement.
      (1)   Advertising and promotions.  No cannabis business establishment,
nor any other person or entity, shall engage in advertising that contains any
statement or illustration that:
         (a)   Is false or misleading;
         (b)   Promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
         (c)   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
         (d)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
         (e)   Makes any health, medicinal or therapeutic claims about cannabis
or cannabis-infused products;
         (f)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
         (g)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals or children, or any other likeness to images,
characters or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing to or
encourage consumption of persons under 21 years of age.
      (2)   No cannabis business establishment, nor any other person or entity,
shall place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement
of cannabis or a cannabis-infused product, in any form or through any medium,
that:
         (a)   Is within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a
playground, a recreation center or facility, a child care center, a public park
or public library, or a game arcade to which admission is not restricted to
persons 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Is on or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter;
         (c)   Is on or in publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
         (d)   Contains information that:
            1.   Is false or misleading;
            2.   Promotes excessive consumption;
            3.   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
            4.   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf; or
            5.   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals or children, or any other likeness to images,
characters or phrases that are popularly used to advertise to children, or any
imitation of candy packaging or labeling, or that promotes consumption of
cannabis.
      (3)   Division (2)(a) and (b) do not apply to an educational message.
      (4)   Sales promotions.  No cannabis business establishment, nor any
other person or entity, may encourage the sale of cannabis or cannabis products
by giving away cannabis or cannabis products, by conducting games or
competitions related to the consumption of cannabis or cannabis products, or by
providing promotional materials or activities of a manner or type that would be
appealing to children.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.07 SEIZURE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Every device of drug paraphernalia as defined by §
136.01 found in this village is contraband, and shall be subject to seizure,
confiscation and destruction by the village.
   (B)   Every device of drug paraphernalia located in the village shall be
seized and forfeited as contraband to the village.
   (C)   If, within 60 days after any seizure pursuant to this section, a
person having any property interest in the seized property is charged with an
offense, the court which renders judgment upon the charge shall, within 30 days
after the judgment, conduct a forfeiture hearing to determine whether the
property was contraband at the time of seizure. The hearing shall be commenced
by the written petition by the village, including material allegations of the
fact, the name and address of every person determined by the village to have
any property interest in the seized property, a representation that written
notice of the date, time and place of the hearing has been mailed to every such
person by certified mail at least ten days before that date, and a request for
forfeiture. Every such person may appear as a party and present evidence at the
hearing. The quantum of proof required shall be a preponderance of the
evidence, and the burden of proof shall be on the village. If the court
determines that the seized property was contraband at the time of seizure, an
order of forfeiture and disposition of the seized property shall be entered: a
paraphernalia device shall be received by the Chief of Police, who shall effect
its destruction, except that valuable parts thereof may be liquidated and the
resultant money shall be deposited in the general fund of the village wherein
the seizure occurred; money and other things of value shall be received by the
Chief of Police and, upon liquidation, shall be deposited in the general fund
of the village. The order of forfeiture and disposition shall for the purposes
of appeal, be a final order and judgment in a civil proceeding.
   (D)   If a seizure pursuant to division (B) above is not followed by a
charge pursuant to division (C) above, or if the prosecution of the charge is
permanently terminated or indefinitely discontinued without any judgment of
conviction or acquittal: (1) the Village Attorney shall commence an in rem
proceeding for the forfeiture and destruction of a paraphernalia device, or for
the forfeiture and deposit in the general fund of the village of any seized
money or other thing of value, or both, in the Circuit Court; and (2) any
person having any property interest in the seized paraphernalia device, money
or other thing of value may commence separate civil proceedings in the manner
provided by law.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, beginning
January 1, 2020, the use, possession or sale of drug paraphernalia in relation
to the adult use, planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, processing, testing or packaging of cannabis in accordance and
compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.)
shall not be a civil or criminal offense.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 5-21-02; Am. Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
§ 136.08 MISCELLANEOUS CANNABIS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Identification.  To protect personal privacy, this subchapter shall
not require a purchaser to provide a dispensing organization with personal
information other than government-issued identification to determine the
purchaser’s age, and a dispensing organization shall not obtain and record
personal information about a purchaser without the purchaser’s consent. A
dispensing organization shall use an electronic reader or electronic scanning
device to scan a purchaser’s government-issued identification, if applicable,
to determine the purchaser’s age and the validity of the identification. Any
identifying or personal information of a purchaser obtained or received in
accordance with this section shall not beretained, used, shared or disclosed
for any purpose except as authorized by Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410
ILCS 705/1 et seq.).
      (1)   A person who is under 21 years of age may not present or offer to a
cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business establishment’s
principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that is false,
fraudulent or not actually the person's own, for the purpose of:
         (a)   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain, cannabis or any cannabis product; or
         (b)   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment.
      (2)   No agent or employee of the licensee shall be disciplined or
discharged for selling or furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to a person
under 21 years of age if the agent or employee demanded and was shown, before
furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to a person under 21 years of age,
adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person. This division (A)
(2) does not apply if the agent or employee accepted the written evidence
knowing it to be false or fraudulent. ADEQUATE WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF AGE AND
IDENTITY OF THE PERSON is a document issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator’s license, a registration certificate
issued under the Military Selective Service Act, or an identification card
issued to a member of the armed forces. Proof that the licensee, or his or her
employee or agent, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence
in any transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative defense in any
criminal prosecution therefor, or to any proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license based thereon.
   (B)   Limitations and penalties. This section does not permit any person to
engage in, and does not prevent the imposition of any civil, criminal or other
penalties for engaging in any of the following conduct:
      (1)   Undertaking any task under the influence of cannabis when doing so
would constitute negligence, professional malpractice or professional
misconduct;
      (2)   Possessing cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.);
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In a vehicle not open to the public, unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      (3)   Using cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In any motor vehicle;
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         (f)   In any public place. As used in this section, PUBLIC PLACE means
any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be observed by others.
PUBLIC PLACE includes all parts of buildings owned, in whole or in part, or
leased, by the state or a unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE does not
include a private residence unless it is used to provide licensed child care,
foster care or other similar social service care on the premises; or
         (g)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years
of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (4)   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act (410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.);
      (5)   Operating, navigating or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft or motorboat while using or under the influence of
cannabis in violation of § 11-501 or § 11-502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/11-501 or 11-502.1);
      (6)   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed
to use cannabis under this subchapter, the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or
the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (7)   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to this subchapter,
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (8)   The use of cannabis by a law enforcement officer, corrections
officer, probation officer or firefighter while on duty; or
      (9)   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver’s license while on duty.
      (10)   The establishment, ownership and/or operation of any business,
business entity or social club that allows for the on-site consumption of
cannabis and/or cannabis-infused products, including, but not limited to,
“cannabis business establishments” and other entities, such as “cannabis cafes/
lounges”, “cannabis hookah lounges”, “cannabis social use spaces”, bars,
restaurants, bowling alleys, golf courses, arcade/gaming facilities, video
gaming facilities, and cigar bars.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the arrest or
prosecution of a person for reckless driving or driving under the influence of
cannabis if probable cause exists.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a private business from
restricting or prohibiting the use of cannabis on its property, including areas
where motor vehicles are parked.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall require an individual or business entity
to violate the provisions of federal law, including colleges or universities
that must abide by the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Amendments of
1989, that require campuses to be drug free.
(Ord. 2019-23, passed 12-17-19)
**** ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ****
§ 136.15 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person shall transport, carry, possess, have or consume any
alcoholic liquor in any street, alley, village- or publicly-owned space,
privately-owned parking lot opened to the public in a commercial area, or in or
upon any vehicle commonly used for transportation of passengers, or in and upon
a depot or waiting room area of any public carrier within the village except in
the original container and with the seal unbroken.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees reserves the right to grant or permit
exceptions.
(Ord. 2003-27, passed 10-7-03) Penalty, see §
130.99
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
137.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
137.02   Exemptions
   
137.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
137.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Air Rifles, Blow/Dart Guns, Paintball Guns/Marker,
Bows and Arrows, and Sling Shots
   
137.10   Definitions
   
137.11   Selling, renting or transferring to minors; prohibition
   
137.12   Carrying or discharging air rifles, blow/dart guns, paintball guns/
marker, bows and arrows, and sling shots on public streets
   
137.13   Permissive possession
   
137.14   Permissive sales
   
137.15   Seizure and penalty
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, 430 ILCS 65/0.01 through 16.3
**** DEADLY WEAPONS ****
§ 137.01 UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess, or carry any bludgeon, black-
jack, slung-shot, sand- club, sand-bag, metal knuckles, or other knuckle weapon
regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly referred
to as a switch-blade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring, or other device in the handle of the
knife; or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade
as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed gas,
but which shall not be deemed to include crossbows, common or compound bows
and/or underwater spearguns in accordance with 720 ILCS 5/24-1(e);
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
      (3)   Carry on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non-lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (4)   Set a spring gun;
      (5)   Carry or possess any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration, or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted;
      (6)   Sell, manufacture, or purchase any explosive bullet. EXPLOSIVE
BULLET shall mean the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which
contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact with
the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having
a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end
thereof, with the propellant contained in the tube between the projectile and
the cap; or
      (7)   Carry or possess on or about his or her person while in a building
occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like character,
or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon. For the
purposes of this section, BILLY CLUB means a short stick or club commonly
carried by police officers, which is either telescopic or constructed of a
solid piece of wood or other man-made material.
   (B)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in division (A), means:
      (1)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her incapable
of normal functioning; or
      (2)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in
such a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; possession of
weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or possession of weapons on school or
university grounds (all of which are felonies), see 720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6), (7),
and (9) and 24-1(c)(2) respectively
§ 137.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
137.01(A)(3) and (A)(7) does not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment.
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation, if their duties
include the carrying of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004,
while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment. A person shall be
considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the required
20 hours of training for a private security contractor, private detective, or
private alarm contractor, or employee of a licensed private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency and 28 hours
of required firearm training and has been issued a firearm control card by the
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. Conditions for the renewal
of firearm control cards issued under this provisions of this section shall be
the same as for those cards issued under the provisions of the Private
Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith
Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor, or employee of the
licensed private security contractor, private detective, or private alarm
contractor agency at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force registered with the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation; provided, that the security guard has successfully
completed a course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation consisting of not less than 48 hours of
training which shall include theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and
the handling of weapons. A person shall be considered to be in compliance with
this section if he or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a
security officer and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued
a firearm control card by the Department of Financial and Professional
Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm control cards issued under
the provisions of this section shall be the same as for those cards issued
under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security,
Fingerprint Vendor, and Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall
be carried by the security guard at all times when he or she is in possession
of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
137.01(A)(3) while on duty in the course of any investigation for the
Commission.
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to that financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by the financial institution, and who, as
a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department; provided that any person so employed has successfully completed a
course of study, approved by and supervised by the Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 48 hours of training which
includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of
weapons. A person shall be considered to be eligible for this exemption if he
or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security officer
and 28 hours of required firearm training, and has been issued a firearm
control card by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation.
Conditions for renewal of firearm control cards issued under the provisions of
this section shall be the same as for those issued under the provisions of the
Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security, Fingerprint Vendor, and
Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm control card shall be carried by the
security guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this
division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or company providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to 20
ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to 725 ILCS 210/1 et
seq.
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under 55
ILCS 5/3-9005.
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed, if they have received weapons training
according to requirements of the Peace Officer and Probation Officer Firearm
Training Act.
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff.
      (15)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under (A)(1) through (14) of this section to possess those weapons.
      (16)   Divisions (A)(4) and (10) do not apply to or affect any person
carrying a concealed pistol, revolver, or handgun and the person has been
issued a currently valid license under the Firearm Concealed Carry Act at the
time of the commission of the offense.
      (17)   Divisions (A)(4) and (10) do not apply to or affect a qualified
current or retired law enforcement officer qualified or a current or retired
deputy, county correctional officer, or correctional officer of the Department
of Corrections under the laws of this state or under the federal Law
Enforcement Officers Safety Act.
   (B)   Section
137.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or carrying of a
black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
   (C)   Section
137.01(A)(5) does not apply to any owner, manager, or authorized employee of
any place specified in that division or to any law enforcement officer.
   (D)   Section
137.01(A)(6) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordnance.
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance.
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly, or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (D)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.   
   (E)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negate any exemptions contained in this subchapter.
The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying,
or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common
carrier is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or
affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol, revolver,
stun gun, taser, or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by 720 ILCS
5/24-1(a)(7), which is unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s
identification card.
(720 ILCS 5/24-2)   
§ 137.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession any
firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person;
      (2)   He is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a misdemeanor
other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any firearms or
firearm ammunition in his or her possession;
      (3)   He is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm ammunition
in his or her possession;
      (4)   He has been a patient in a mental institution within the past five
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession. For
purposes of this division (A)(4):
         MENTAL INSTITUTION. Any hospital, institution, clinic, evaluation
facility, mental health center, or part thereof, which is used primarily for
the care or treatment of persons with mental illness.
         PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION. The person was admitted, either
voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness; or
      (5)   He is a person with an intellectual disability and has any firearms
or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He has in his or her possession any explosive bullet. For the
purposes of this section, EXPLOSIVE BULLET means the projectile portion of an
ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will
explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. CARTRIDGE means a
tubular metal case having a projectile fixed at the front thereof and a cap or
primer at the rear end thereof with the propellent contained in the tube
between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99. Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law. The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
(720 ILCS 5/24-3.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 137.04 CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(720 ILCS 5/24-6)
AIR RIFLES, BLOW/DART GUNS, PAINTBALL GUNS/MARKER,
BOWS AND ARROWS, AND SLING SHOTS
§ 137.10 DEFINITIONS.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun,
paint ball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which impels
a breakable paint ball containing washable marking colors or, a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   BARREL PLUG. For a paintball gun/marker, a plug designed for the purpose of
capping off the barrel of the paintball gun/marker by pressure or otherwise
preventing the discharge of any paintball or other projectile from the
paintball gun or marker when not in use.
   BARREL SOCK. For a paintball gun/marker, a fitted device designed for the
purpose of fitting into the barrel of the paintball gun/marker in order to
prevent the discharge of any paintball or other projectile from the paintball
gun or marker when not in use.
   BLOW GUN or DART GUN. Any tube, barrel V shaft, or similar device including
spear guns, which are designed, intended or used as a means to project darts,
pellets, BBs, or other similar sharp or hard objects by air pressure, spring,
elastic band, or by other force.
   BOW AND ARROW. Any prime equipment that may be used in archery or hunting
including, but not limited to, crossbows, compound bows, arrows or darts.
   DEALER. Any person, co-partnership, association or corporation engaged in
the business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in
the definition of air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/
marker, or slingshot.
   GASSED OFF. A paintball gun/marker in a state in which the force from the
pressure tank or cartridge is disconnected or shut off from the barrel of the
paintball gun/marker whether by removing the pressure tank or cartridge, or by
tripping a device to disconnect the pressure from the pressure tank or
cartridge.
   IN LOCO PARENTIS. Standing legally in relation to a minor with parent-like
authority.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
   PAINTBALL GUN or MARKER. Any gun, pistol, spring gun, spring pistol or any
instrument that is not a firearm which impels or propels a pellet or other
material containing paint or similar substance.
   PRESSURE TANK or CARTRIDGE. A tank or cartridge containing carbon dioxide,
nitrogen, air or other gas, designed, intended or used to create pressure for
the firing of a projectile from a paintball gun/marker, air rifle or similar
device.
   PROJECTILE. Any pellet, whether plastic or metal, BB, dart, arrow, spear,
paintball, or other similarly hard, sharp, or staining object that is designed,
intended or used for the purpose of being projected by force out of or from an
air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot.
   SLING SHOT. Any device of any kind, shape or size that utilizes a spring,
elastic band or similar device, alone or in conjunction with a physical act, to
propel a projectile.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
§ 137.11 SELLING, RENTING OR TRANSFERRING TO MINORS; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   A dealer (or employee, agent, or representative thereof) commits the
unlawful selling, renting, or transferring an air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and
arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot, a projectile designed, intended or
used for discharge from a firing device or a pressure tank or cartridge
designed, intended or used to discharge a projectile from a firing device, to a
minor when he or she sells, lends, rents, gives or otherwise transfers an air
rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot, a
projectile designed, intended or used for discharge from a firing device or a
pressure tank or cartridge designed, intended or used to discharge a projectile
from a firing device to any person under the age of 18 years where the dealer
or any other person knows or has cause to believe the person to be under 18
years of age or where the dealer has failed to make reasonable inquiry relative
to the age of the person and the person is under 18 years of age.
   (B)   A person commits the unlawful selling, renting, or transferring an air
rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot to a
minor when he or she sells, gives, lends, or otherwise transfers an air rifle,
blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot to any person
under 18 years of age except where the relationship of parent and child,
guardian and ward or adult instructor and pupil, exists between this person and
the person under 18 years of age, or where the person stands in loco parentis
to the person under 18 years of age.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-1)
   (C)   It is unlawful for a dealer or any person to fill for a minor any
pressure tank or cartridge with carbon dioxide, nitrogen, air, or other
substance designed, intended or used in conjunction with a firing device.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
§ 137.12 CARRYING OR DISCHARGING AIR RIFLES, BLOW/DART GUNS, PAINTBALL GUNS/
MARKER, BOWS AND ARROWS, AND SLING SHOTS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   A person under 18 years of age commits the unlawful carrying or
discharging an air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker,
or slingshot on public streets when he or she carries an air rifle, blow/dart
gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot on the public streets,
roads, highways or public lands within the municipal boundaries of the village
unless the person under 18 years of age carries the air rifle, blow/dart gun,
bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot unloaded.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely that his or
her age is 18 years or older in connection with the possession, discharge or
transfer of an air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker,
or slingshot.
   (C)   A person commits the unlawful carrying or discharging an air rifle,
blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot on public
streets when he or she discharges an air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow,
paintball gun/marker, or slingshot from or across any street, sidewalk, road,
highway or public land or any public place except on a safely constructed
target range.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-2)
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
§ 137.13 PERMISSIVE POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, it is lawful for any person
under 18 years of age to have in his or her possession any an air rifle, blow/
dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or slingshot if it is:
   (A)   Kept within his or her house or residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person and he or she is a duly enrolled member of any
club, team or society organized for educational purposes and maintaining as
part of its facilities or having written permission to use an indoor or outdoor
rifle range under the supervision, guidance and instruction of a responsible
adult and the, only if the air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball
gun/marker, or slingshot is actually being used in connection with the
activities of the club, team or society under the supervision of a responsible
adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or
slingshot is fired, discharged or operated in a manner as not to endanger
persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to prevent the
projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the limits of the
grounds or residence.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-3)
   (D)   The air rifle, blow/dart gun, bow and arrow, paintball gun/marker, or
slingshot is used by any police officer engaged in authorized police training
or any other authorized police activity.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
§ 137.14 PERMISSIVE SALES.
   The provisions of §§
137.10 through
137.13 do not prohibit sales of air rifles, blow/dart guns, bows and arrows,
paintball guns/markers, or slingshots:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state; or
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with §
137.13 of this chapter or by members of the Armed Services of the United
States, veterans' organizations or police departments.
(720 ILCS 5/24.8-4)
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
§ 137.15 SEIZURE AND PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of §§
137.10 through
137.13 shall be a petty offense, and a police officer shall seize, take, remove
or cause to be removed at the expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used
in any manner in violation of §§
137.10 through
137.13. (720 ILCS 5/24.8-5). A fine of not less than $100 shall be assessed for
any person found to be in violation of any provision of §§
137.10 through
137.13. Each separate incident shall be deemed a separate offense and each
offense shall be considered a separate violation subject to a separate fine.
Any person who violates any provision of §§
137.10 through
137.13 shall be held responsible to pay for any damage caused by, or related
to, such violation.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 2-7-23)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adopting various building codes by reference
   
150.02   Dangerous buildings
   
150.03   Residential Anti-Displacement and Relocation Assistance Plan
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
§ 150.01 ADOPTING VARIOUS BUILDING CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by state statute, the village adopts by
reference the following:
      (1)   The BOCA National Building Code/1996 (13th Edition);
      (2)   The National Electrical Code, 1996 Edition;
      (3)   The 1996 Edition, ICC International Mechanical Code, as referenced
in the 1996 BOCA National Building Code, Section 2801.2;
      (4)   The CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1995 Edition second
printing;
      (5)   The Illinois Plumbing Code, 2004 Edition, as amended and published
by the Illinois Department of Public Health;
      (6)   (a)   The ICC International Property Maintenance Code/2000, First
Printing with Errata or Second Printing as published by the International Code
Council, Inc.
         (b)   That the ICC International Property Maintenance Code is amended
and revised in the following respects:
      Section PM-101.1   Insert: Village of Rockton
      Section PM-102.3 is amended to read as follows: Application of other
codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of
the Building Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code, Electric Code, and Fuel Gas
Code then adopted by the Village of Rockton. Where any reference is made in
this ICC International Property Maintenance Code to any other such codes, said
reference shall be to the relevant code then adopted by the Village of Rockton
or, if no comparable code has yet to be
adopted by the village, to the appropriate International Code. Nothing in this
code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the
International Zoning Code or the Village of Rockton Zoning Code.
      Section PM-103.2 is amended to read as follows: Code Official. The code
official referenced in this code shall be the Code Enforcement Officer
appointed pursuant to Village of Rockton Code of Ordinance § 150.01(C).
      Section PM-103.3 is amended to read as follows: Deputies. The deputy code
officials, related technical officers and inspectors referenced in this Code
shall be the Deputy Code Enforcement Officers appointed pursuant to Village of
Rockton Code of Ordinance § 150.01(C).
      Section PM-303.14   Insert: April 1 to November 1
      Section PM-602.3   Insert: October 1 to May 1
      Section PM-602.4   Insert: October 1 to May 1
      (7)   The most current version of the Illinois State Model Floodplain
Ordinance-Level B, and as amended or modified from time to time. (The
floodplain ordinance contained in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 2008-6 is
incorporated as though set forth fully herein.)
      (8)   The most current version of the Winnebago County Surface Water
Management Ordinance, and as amended or modified from time to time.
         (a)   That the Winnebago County Surface Water Management Ordinance is
hereby amended and revised such that any references to Winnebago County and/or
any of its boards, departments, committees or officers shall be replaced with
the Village of Rockton and/or its corresponding boards, departments, committees
or officers.
   (B)   Any and all previous building code restrictions, ordinances and
resolutions to the contrary are repealed insofar as they are in conflict with
the foregoing and are replaced as contained in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 1998-
25, which is incorporated as though set forth fully herein.
   (C)   Code Enforcement Officer and Deputy Code Enforcement Officers.
      (1)   Appointment of Code Enforcement Officer. The Village President
shall appoint a Code Enforcement Officer, who shall report directly to the
Village President.
      (2)   Appointment of Deputy Code Enforcement Officer(s). The President
may appoint any Deputy Code Enforcement Officer(s), as needed, who shall report
directly to the Village President or to any such person as directed by the
President, including the Code Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   Term. The term for the Code Enforcement Officer and any Deputy Code
Enforcement Officer(s) shall coincide with the term of the Village President,
who shall retain the right to remove the Code Enforcement Officer and said
deputies and reappoint the replacement of any at any time at his or her sole
discretion.
      (4)   Compensation. Compensation for the positions of Code Enforcement
Officer and Deputy Code Enforcement Officer shall be set and from time to time
amended by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (5)   Responsibilities. The Code Enforcement Officer and Deputy Code
Enforcement Officer(s) shall be responsible for investigating any and all
violations of this code, including but not limited to any Building Code,
Electrical Code, Mechanical Code, Property Maintenance Code, Plumbing Code, and
the like existing or hereafter adopted by the village.
      (6)   Duties. The Code Enforcement Officer’s and Deputy Code Enforcement
Officers’ duties shall include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Receive complaints;
         (b)   Identify and investigate municipal code violations;
         (c)   Issue correction notices and orders to comply;
         (d)   Meet with property owners to develop a plan to resolve
violations;
         (e)   Maintain inspection files;
         (f)   Refer complaints and observed violations to the Village
President and Village Attorney for enforcement; and
         (g)   Any other related duties as assigned.
(Ord. 1998-25, passed 11-2-98; Am. Ord. 2004-8, passed 5-18-04; Am. Ord. 2004-
9, passed 3-20-04; Am. Ord. 2008-6, passed 3-4-08)
§ 150.02 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. The term DANGEROUS BUILDING as used in this section is
defined to mean and include:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause is
liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any
part of such a structure;
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other man-made structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
   (B)   Declared a nuisance. Any such dangerous building in the village is
declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   Maintaining dangerous buildings unlawful. It shall be unlawful to
maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous building in the village; and
it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person in custody of any
dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition or to
occupy such building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains in a
dangerous condition.
   (D)   Abatement.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector, or any other officer or employee
of the village shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the
village is a dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to
this effect with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written
notice to be served upon the owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by registered mail or by personal service. The notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in dangerous condition and that such dangerous
condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the buildings or
by demolishing it and that the condition must be remedied at once. The notice
may be in the following form:
“To                                              of the premises known and
described as                                    . You are hereby notified that
                                    on the premises above described has been
condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after inspection by
                                      . The causes for this decision are
                                                                                    .
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
city will proceed to do so.”
      (2)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith
within ten days from the time when this notice is served upon such person, by
personal or by registered mail, the Building Inspector may, upon order of the
President proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building.
   (E)   Fire limits.
      (1)   Any building or structure within corporate limits of the village as
hereinbefore prescribed by ordinance which has or may be damaged by fire, decay
or other cause to the extent of 50% of its value shall be torn down and
removed.
      (2)   Upon written notice by the Building Inspector, or any other village
employee filed with the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall notify the President of
the receipt of the notice. The President shall then appoint three persons to
determine whether or not such building or structure has been damaged to the
extent of 50% of its value. A copy of the notice filed by the village officer,
together with a notice of the appointment of this board of three persons to
determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises by personal
service or by registered mail to his or her last known address.
      (3)   The notice may be in substantially the following form:
“To                                                             . You are
hereby notified that                    has determined that the building owned
by you at                                   , located within the fire limits of
the village has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the extent of 50%
of its value; and that a board of three members has been appointed to verify
this finding, which board will hold its first meeting in the Village Hall on
the                 day of                    at the hour of                 
o’clock, at which time it will determine whether this finding is correct. If
this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove said
building.”
      (4)   If the board of three members determines that the building in
question has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value, it shall be the
duty of the owner to tear down or remove the building within 20 days after the
finding of the board; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit such
building to be occupied after such finding.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section or permitting any dangerous building or any building or structure
to remain in a dangerous condition or to remain in the fire limits after it has
been damaged to tho extent of 50% of its value shall be fined not less than $1
nor more that $100 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
   (G)   Unknown owners. If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or
if his or her address is unknown, service of any notice provided for in this
section may be made by posting a copy thereof on the premises and by publishing
one time a copy thereof in a newspaper published within the village, or if no
newspaper is published within the village, then a newspaper with a general
circulation within the village.
   (H)   Alternative action. In addition to the actions authorized by other
sections of this section, the Chief of the Fire Department or any other
municipal official whose duty it is to investigate fires may make the
investigations authorized by state law. If such officer shall find that any
building or structure is so occupied or situated as to endanger persons or
property or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of repair or for any
other cause is especially liable to fire, or is liable to cause injury by
collapsing or otherwise, he or she shall order the dangerous condition removed
or remedied and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the premises. Service
of the notice may be in person or by registered mail, and any person so
notified may appeal from the decision of the officer in the manner provided by
law.
(Ord. 1957-2, passed 2-18-57)
§ 150.03 RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The village will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low- to
moderate-income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as
low- to moderate-income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with
funds provided under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as
amended (42 USC 5301 et seq.), as described in 24 CFR 570.606(b)(1).
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the village will make public and submit to DCCA the following
information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low or moderate-income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low- or moderate-income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The village will provide relocation assistance, as described in
570.606(b)(2), to each low- or moderate-income household displaced by the
demolition of housing or by the conversion of a low- or moderate-income
dwelling to another use as a direct result of assisted activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the village will take the following steps to minimize the displacement
of persons from their homes:
      (1)   Will attempt to minimize any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low- to
moderate-income persons; and
      (2)   Will advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed
to demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Ord. 1990- , passed 6-4-90)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Purposes
   
151.003   Intent
   
151.004   Scope
   
151.005   Jurisdiction
   
151.006   Interpretation
   
151.007   Consideration by Planning Commission
   
151.008   Unsuitable land
   
151.009   Vacation of a plat of subdivision
   
151.010   Subdivision created by successive divisions
   
151.011   Land abutting a private way outside the village
   
151.012   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.020   Organization
   
151.021   Village Board of Trustees
   
151.022   Village Planning Commission
   
151.023   Plats Officer
   
151.024   Village Engineer
   
151.025   Winnebago County Health Department
   
151.026   Exceptions, variations and waivers
   
151.027   Amendments
   
151.028   Fees
   
151.029   Field inspection
Procedures for Approval
   
151.040   Land divisions
   
151.041   Subdivisions: Step 1 – Site assessment checklist and concept plan
   
151.042   Subdivisions: Site assessment checklist requirements
   
151.043   Subdivisions: Site assessment report requirements
   
151.044   Subdivisions: Concept plan requirements
   
151.045   Subdivisions: Step 2 – Pre-application meeting on concept
   
151.046   Subdivisions: Step 3 – Tentative plat
   
151.047   Subdivisions: Materials required with tentative plat submittal
   
151.048   Subdivisions: Application for approval of tentative plat
   
151.049   Subdivisions: Drawing of tentative plat
   
151.050   Subdivisions: Step 4 – Final plat
   
151.051   Subdivisions: Final plat coverage
   
151.052   Subdivisions: Application for approval of final plat
   
151.053   Subdivisions: Drawing of final plat
   
151.054   Subdivisions: Recording of final plat
   
151.055   Extraterritorial land divisions and subdivisions
Dimensional and Design Standards
   
151.060   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations
   
151.061   Streets and alleys
   
151.062   Easements
   
151.063   Blocks
   
151.064   Lots
   
151.065   Topographical and surface water studies
   
151.066   Erosion and sediment control
   
151.067   Design standards for planned unit developments
   
151.068   Subdivisions to accommodate conservation neighborhood design (CND)
   
151.069   Residential driveway standards
Public Improvement and Construction Standards
   
151.070   Determination of adequacy of public improvements
   
151.071   Development agreement
   
151.072   Construction design requirements
   
151.073   Commencement of construction
   
151.074   Subdivider responsibilities during construction
Parks and Public Spaces
   
151.080   Dedication and fee requirements
   
151.081   Tentative plat to accommodate planned public spaces
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix 1:   Certifications
   
Appendix 2:   Site Assessment Checklist Form
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereafter be known, cited, and referred to as “The
Village of Rockton Subdivision Code.”
(Ord. § 100, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.002 PURPOSES.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (B)   To further the orderly layout and use of the land;
   (C)   To guide the future growth and development of the village in
accordance with its comprehensive plan, and in concert with its zoning code;
   (D)   To achieve individual lots of reasonable utility and livability;
   (E)   To avoid hazardous soil, drainage and topographic conditions;
   (F)   To secure adequate traffic circulation by means of coordinating
street, highway, and pedestrian systems;
   (G)   To provide for adequate provisions for transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, recreational areas and other public ways and
facilities;
   (H)   To provide for proper ingress and egress to properties and
neighborhoods;
   (I)   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with subdivision development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the
proposed subdivision, and that the community will be required to bear no more
than its fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services
through requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish
mitigation measures to ensure that the development provides its fair share of
capital facilities needs generated by the development;
   (J)   To facilitate the future re-subdivision of land into smaller or larger
parcels of land;
   (K)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and condominium plats in order to further the orderly layout and
use of land, and to ensure proper legal description and proper monumenting of
subdivided land;
   (L)   To provide administrative and review procedures for the attainment of
these objectives.
(Ord. § 101, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.003 INTENT.
   These regulations are established with reasonable consideration for the
existing character of the village with a view toward conserving the value of
buildings upon the land and providing the best possible environment for human
habitation. It is intended that these regulations shall supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and development contained in the
building codes, comprehensive plan and all elements therein.
(Ord. § 102, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter excepting §
151.040 shall apply to any division of lands into three or more parts,
including condominium plats but excepting instances noted in 765 ILCS 205/1(b)
including the following instances:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of ten
acres or more in size provided that such division does not involve any new
streets or easements of access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision provided that such division does not involve any new
streets or easements of access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines provided that such conveyance does not involve any new streets or
easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
provided that such conveyance does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959, provided that such sale or exchange does not involve
any new streets or easements of access;
      (9)   The sale of a single lot of less than ten acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973.
   (B)   Section
151.040 of this chapter applies to any division of land into no more than two
parts, one of which is less than ten acres in area, provided that such division
does not create any new streets or easements of access. Section 151.040 of this
chapter applies to items eight and nine of 765 ILCS 205/1(b) as noted above.
(Ord. § 103, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.005 JURISDICTION.
   The subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as
defined herein, located within the village and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, in accordance with Chapter 24 and Chapter 109, Illinois Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. § 200, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.006 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the protection of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this chapter upon
the subdivision of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of this chapter or of any
other applicable law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive and impose higher standards or
requirements shall govern.
   (C)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any
other private agreement, provided that where the regulations of this resolution
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or regulations than such
easements, covenant or other private agreement, the requirements of this
chapter shall govern.
   (D)   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time of
the adoption of this chapter shall be made lawful solely by reason of the
adoption of this chapter, and to the extent that said subdivision of land is in
conflict in any manner with the requirements of this chapter, said subdivision
of land remains unlawful hereunder.
   (E)   If the village fails to act upon the final plat within the time
prescribed the applicant may as provided in 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8, after giving 5
days’ written notice to the village, file a complaint for summary judgment in
the circuit court and upon showing that the village has failed to act within
the time prescribed the court shall enter an order authorizing the order to
record the plat as finally submitted without the approval of the village. A
plat so recorded shall have the same force and effect as though
that plat had been approved by the village. If the village refuses to act upon
the final plat within the time prescribed and if its failure is willful, upon
such showing and upon proof of damages the village shall be liable therefor.
(Ord. § 400, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.007 CONSIDERATIONS BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission in the examination of subdivision plats for
approval and in the application of this chapter shall take into consideration
the requirements of the community and the best use of the land being
subdivided. Particular attention shall be given to width and location of
streets, suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes and
playgrounds, schools and recreation sites and other public uses.
   (B)   No subdivision plat or condominium plat shall be approved or recorded
for any parcel of land whose proposed subdivision or use would not
substantially comply with the applicable standards of the village’s
comprehensive plan and zoning code, and all other ordinances.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall not recommend for approval to the
Village Board of Trustees any plat of subdivision which does not make adequate
provisions for storm or floodwater runoff channels or basins.
   (D)   In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the preservation of
natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical and similar
features.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.008 UNSUITABLE LAND.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
Planning Commission, after investigation by the Village Engineer, to be
unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or bad drainage, adverse earth or
rock formation or topography, or welfare of the future residents in the
proposed subdivision or of the community. However, the subdivision of land
which is subject to stream overflow may be permitted if the special
requirements described in §
151.072 have been completed or proper assurance given that they will be
completed subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.009 VACATION OF A PLAT OF SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   Such an instrument shall be approved by the Village Board of Trustees
in like manner as plats of subdivisions. The Village Board of Trustees may
reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any public rights in any
of its streets or alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged,
or proved, and recorded, or filed, in the like manner as plats of subdivision;
and being duly recorded, or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect
of the recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of
such writing. The provisions of 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq. are also applicable.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.010 SUBDIVISION CREATED BY SUCCESSIVE DIVISIONS.
   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided into lots containing one or more
acres and there are indications that such lots will eventually be subdivided
into small plats, the Village Board of Trustees may require that such parcel of
land be divided so as to allow for the future opening of streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future
opening and extensions of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.011 LAND ABUTTING A PRIVATE WAY OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE.
   No person shall sell any parcel of land of one acre or less in size, located
outside the corporate limits of the village, within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village, as it abuts a road which has not been accepted as
a public road unless the seller informs the purchaser in writing of the fact
that the road is not a public road and is not required to be maintained by the
county or township. A minimum 20-foot wide circulation easement shall be
recorded prior to the issuance of any building permits.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.012 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESS. A way or means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian
entrances to a property.
      ALLEY.  A public way which affords only a secondary means of vehicular
access to property abutting thereon.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed to carry a large volume of high speed
traffic. Such streets are not intended to provide access to abutting property,
and other street and driveway intersections with arterial streets will be
limited.
      BLOCK.  A tract of land bounded by streets, or in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or
shore lines of waterways or corporate boundary lines of municipalities.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for
the sheltering or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any
kind; any structures with interior areas not normally accessible for human use,
such as gas, oil or water tanks, grain elevator, coal bunkers, oil crackling
towers and other similar structures, are not considered buildings.
      BUILDING, SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line
at a distance from it, regulated by the setback requirements set up in the
zoning code.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street used, or intended to be used, to carry traffic
from minor streets, abutting properties and generally takes direct access from
collector streets to the major system of arterial streets.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A policy document prepared and adopted by the
Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees that includes proposals for
future land use, transportation and public facilities.
      CONDOMINIUM PLAT. A plat or plats of survey of a parcel of land subject
to the provisions of the Illinois Condominiums Property Act, 765 ILCS 605,
which includes all condominium units in the property and which may consist of a
three-dimensional horizontal and/or vertical delineation of all such units.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      DEVELOPER. See SUBDIVIDER.
      EASEMENT. A nonprofitable interest in land owned by another that entitles
its holder to a specific limited use.
      EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. A distance of 1½ miles from the corporate
limits of the village in which the village exercises subdivision review powers.
      FINAL PLAT. A map and any accompanying material prepared by the
subdivider and approved by the village in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.050—
151.054 to be recorded as a subdivision.
      FLAG LOT.  A lot with its widest point set back from the road, and having
a thin, long strip (“flag pole”) of land connected to the road to provide legal
access and frontage.
      FRONTAGE. The length of the front property line of the lot, lots or tract
of land abutting a public street, road, highway, or rural right-of-way.
      GRADE.  The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percent and shown on street profile plans as required herein.
      IMPROVEMENT, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch,
water main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, planting strip, off-
street parking area or other facility for which the village may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation.
      LAND DIVISION.  A division of a parcel of land into no more than two
parts, at least one of which is less than ten acres in area, provided that such
division does not create any new streets or easements of access.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use
permitted in the zoning code, including one main building together with its
accessory building, the open spaces and parking spaces required by the village
zoning code, and having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an
officially approved place.
      LOT, CORNER.  A lot located at the intersection of two streets or rights-
of-way or a lot bounded on two sides by a curving street or right-of-way and
two adjacent chords of which form an angle of 120 degrees or less measured on
the lot side.
      LOT, KEY. A lot located between two corner lots which are fronting on
other streets.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map or plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Winnebago
County, Illinois; or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the adoption of this chapter.
      LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
extending between two substantially parallel streets. On a THROUGH LOT both
street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      MAJOR ARTERIAL. A street used, or intended to be used, primarily for fast
or heavy through traffic. MAJOR ARTERIALS shall include freeways, and
expressways as well as standard arterial streets, highways and parkways (see
ARTERIAL).
      MINOR STREET. A street which has a primary purpose of serving abutting
properties. Cul-de-sac streets are included in this definition.
      NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A detailed land use and transportation
plan for a specific neighborhood, district, or part of a community.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought to
be subdivided under this chapter.
      PEDESTRIANWAY or CROSSWALK. A right-of-way across or within a block, for
use by pedestrian traffic and may include utilities where necessary.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, multi-use path, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or
gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or for another special
use. The usage of the term RIGHTS-OF-WAY for land platting purposes in the
village shall mean that every plat is to be separated and not included within
the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for
streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains or any other
use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use
by the maker of the plat on which such right-of-way is established.
      ROADWAY. A surfaced portion of the street available to vehicular traffic.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any physical construction in conformity with the
Village Engineer, Winnebago County Health Department and State Environmental
Protection Agency.
      SIDEWALK. That portion of a street or crosswalk way, paved or otherwise
surfaced, for pedestrian use only.
      STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to any public easement
therefrom but excepting an alley or driveway to buildings.
      STREET, HALF. A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of
land in which the subdivider has only allocated a part of the ultimate right-
of-way width. HALF STREETS are not permitted by this chapter.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person or corporation or duly authorized agent who
undertakes the subdivision of land as defined herein. A developer of a
condominium plat of three or more building sites is also considered a
SUBDIVIDER for the purposes of this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION.  The division of any parcel of land into three or more
parts, for the purpose of ownership transfer or building development or, if a
new street is involved or easements of access, any division of a parcel of
land. The term includes any division of land that attempts to avoid the
requirements of this chapter. Where appropriate to the context, the term shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. A condominium
plat of three or more building sites is also considered equivalent to a
subdivision for the purposes of this chapter.
      TENTATIVE PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision, submitted initially to the Planning Commission for purposes of
village consideration and approval as a precursor to a final plat.
      WATER SUPPLY, COMMUNAL. A well and appurtenances supplying no more than
three lots of record, and subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and
the Winnebago County Health Department.
      WATER SUPPLY, GROUP. A well and appurtenances supplying four or more lots
of record and subject to the approval of the Village Engineer, Winnebago County
Health Department and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      WATER SUPPLY, INDIVIDUAL.  A well and appurtenances supplying only one
lot, and subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and the Winnebago
County Health Department.
      ZONING CODE. The village zoning code, and subsequent amendments thereto.
      ZONING LOT.  A parcel of land with uniform zoning considered or treated
as a single unit. A ZONING LOT may or may not correspond with a lot of record.
   (B)   Words herein not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with
definitions contained in Webster’s Dictionary.
(Ord. § 301, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 151.020 ORGANIZATION.
   The following offices of the government of the village are charged with the
administration of this chapter.
(Ord. § 500, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.021 VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Village Board of Trustees is vested with the following responsibilities
in regard to subdivision control:
   (A)   Approval or disapproval of all tentative and final plats and certified
survey maps referred to it by the Planning Commission;
   (B)   Approval or disapproval of all variations and exceptions recommended
by the Planning Commission;
   (C)   Amendment of the regulations of this chapter when found necessary and
desirable;
   (D)   Initiation of appropriate proceedings to enforce the provisions of
this chapter; and
   (E)   Maintenance of permanent and current records of this chapter including
amendments thereto.
(Ord. § 501, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.022 VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall administer the provisions of this chapter, and
in furtherance of said authority shall:
   (A)   Maintain working records of this chapter; including amendments
thereto;
   (B)   Receive and file all tentative plats (together with applications);
   (C)   Forward copies of the tentative plat to appropriate offices and
agencies for their recommendations and report;
   (D)   Receive all final plats, and check their compliance with the tentative
plat;
   (E)   Forward all tentative and final plats with recommendations to the
Board of Trustees;
   (F)   Make all other determinations required by the regulations therein and
establish permanent files for all tentative and final plats;
   (G)   Recommend any approval or disapproval of requested variations and
exceptions to the Board of Trustees; and
   (H)   Recommend the approval or denial of land divisions as defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. § 502, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.023 PLATS OFFICER.
   The Plats Officer appointed by the Board of Trustees is vested with the
following responsibilities:
   (A)   Advise developers, subdividers and the public regarding local
procedures and standards and actions of the Board of Trustees and/or Planning
Commission regarding plats review;
   (B)   Notify the Village Board of Trustees whenever any provisions of this
chapter have been violated;
   (C)   Act as technical administrator and coordinator to the Planning
Commission and Board of Trustees; and
   (D)   Collect all plat fees due the village and transfer to the Village
Clerk for deposit in the General Fund.
(Ord. § 503, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.024 VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The Village Engineer shall review all tentative and final subdivision plats
and make determinations in the area of design standards and engineering
specifications, as stipulated herein. His or her determinations and
recommendations shall be forwarded in writing to the Planning Commission and
the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. § 504, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.025 WINNEBAGO COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   The Winnebago County Health Department shall review the water supply and
sewage disposal facilities for privately-owned systems (not public water and
sewage facilities) to be provided on all tentative and final plats referred to
it by the Planning Commission. Determinations and recommendations shall be
forwarded in writing to the Village Engineer and Plats Officer prior to plat
approval.
(Ord. § 505, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.026 EXCEPTIONS, VARIATIONS AND WAIVERS.
   In the event the appropriate village approval authority finds that the
application of the provisions or procedures of this chapter to a particular
land division or subdivision might create an unreasonable hardship or involve
peculiar difficulties, including but not limited to prohibitive cost, that
approval authority consider exceptions, variations, or waivers in accordance
with the following procedure:
   (A)   Submittal. All exceptions, variations or waivers must be initiated by
the subdivider and submitted in writing and shall include reasons, data, or
justification.
   (B)   Finding of facts. All exceptions, variations, or waivers approved or
denied shall be accompanied by findings of facts by the appropriate village
approval authority.
   (C)   Variance. A developer may seek a variance from the design requirements
for streets, storm sewers, curbs, gutters and water and sewer system placement
if its engineer, the Village Engineer, and a third party engineer agreed to by
the village and the developer, review and agree that providing one or more of
these public services following the specified requirements is cost prohibitive
(i.e., value engineering report). The cost for the review of the plans for the
variance procedure by the Village Engineer and the third party engineer shall
be borne solely and completely by the developer. The developer shall deposit
with the village irrevocable securities in the amount of $1,000 to cover the
costs of the Village Engineer’s review. In the event that the Village Board of
Trustees grants the variance or denies the variance, and the developer proceeds
with the project, the village will return the security to the developer after
25% of the development has occurred. If the development does not go forward,
the village would return any unused portion of the $1,000 or bill for any
amount that is above this deposit, within 60 days after the value engineering
report is received or from the date when the developer notifies the village
that the subdivision is not going forward, whichever is sooner. The third party
engineer’s cost shall be paid by the developer and the village shall not
collect for, nor pay any fees to, that party; however, the village may require
that the developer deposit sufficient irrevocable securities for the third
party review.
   (D)   Basis for requesting waiver. A developer may seek to waive any design
requirements of this chapter per the provisions set down in any written pre-
annexation agreements between the developer and the village, or per the plans,
provisions and conditions of any Planned Unit Development approved by the
village.
   (E)   General requirements. Where the Planning Commission finds that
extraordinary hardships or particular difficulties may result from strict
compliance with these regulations, or under circumstances described under
divisions (C) and (D) of this section, it may recommend to the Board of
Trustees variations or exceptions to the regulations, provided that such
variations or exceptions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and
purpose of this chapter; and further provided the Commission shall not
recommend variations or exceptions to the regulations of this chapter unless it
shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located.
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought, and are not
applicable, generally to other property.
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations was carried out.
      (4)   Cost to the developer of strict or literal compliance with the
regulations shall not be the sole reason for granting a variation or exception.
      (5)   If any of the above criteria cannot be met, the subdivision was
subject to a pre-annexation agreement or planned unit development that supports
or directs the waiver or exception.
   (F)   Conditions. In recommending variations and exceptions, the Planning
Commission may recommend and the Board of Trustees may require such conditions
as will, in their judgement, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards of requirements of the village subdivision code.
   (G)   Procedure for a variation. A petition for any such variation shall be
submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the tentative plat is
filed for the consideration of the Commission. The petition shall state fully
the grounds for the application and all the facts taken into consideration by
the petitioner.
   (H)   Recommendation and approval. Such variations and exceptions as may be
recommended by the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the Board of
Trustees in writing, substantiating the recommended variations and/or
exceptions. The Board of Trustees may approve such variations or exceptions
from the requirements of this chapter in specific cases as listed on the final
plat, which in its opinion, do not adversely affect the intent and purpose of
this chapter.
(Ord. § 507, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.027 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the Board of Trustees may from time to time amend the regulations imposed by
this chapter. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by
either the Board of Trustees or the Planning Commission in the manner
prescribed by law.
(Ord. § 508, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.028 FEES.
   (A)   Conditions. In order to cover the costs of plat or certified survey
map examination, filing, recording and other expenses incidental to the
approval of a subdivision or land division, the subdivider shall pay a fee at
the time of application for approval of a tentative plat or certified survey
map. Such fee shall be based on the projected number of lots to be created. At
the time of application for approval of the final plat or the last portion
thereof, the required fee will be recalculated on the basis of the actual
number of lots created and an adjustment of the fee will be made, the
subdivider to pay an additional amount or to receive a refund. There shall be
no refund of any portion of the fee if the subdivider fails to apply for final
approval of the subdivision if a tentative map expires.
   (B)   Amount. To be collected by the Plats Officer by check or money order
and made payable to the Village of Rockton and receipts given of same.
 
Number of lots Fee
1 to 10 lots   $200 per lot
11 to 20 lots  $150 per lot, with a minimum fee of $2,000
Over 21 lots   $50 per lot, with a minimum fee of $3,000
 
(Ord. § 509, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 1989-11, passed 12-4-89; Am. Ord. 1996-
28, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.029 FIELD INSPECTION.
   (A)   Field inspection. All public improvements to be made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction
by the Village Engineer or his or her designee. While inspection must be
permitted at any time, it shall be the responsibility of the developer to call
for formal inspections of the work at the completion of the plat and before
village water and sewer utilities are covered. Failure to call for said
inspections may result in the final plat not being accepted by the village and
fines delineated in §
151.999(B).
   (B)   Cost. Cost of said inspections shall be borne by the developer. The
developer shall pay the village a sum not to exceed 4% of the approved
construction estimate for each plat. These monies would be paid prior to the
commencement of construction.
(Ord. § 510, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 1989-11, passed 12-4-89; Am. Ord. 1997-
10, passed 9-15-97; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
**** PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL ****
§ 151.040 LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section apply to divisions of land
within the corporate limits of the village, into no more than two parts, one of
which is less than ten acres in area, provided that such division does not
create any new streets or easements of access and provided that the conditions
of §
151.004(A)(8) and (9) are met.
   (B)   Preliminary consultation. At least 20 days prior to the submission of
the certified survey map required herein, the divider shall consult the Plats
Officer for the purpose of minimizing the risk of objections to, or rejection
of, the prepared certified survey map, and for the purpose of ascertaining the
problems and requirements affecting his or her property.
   (C)   Procedure for approval. The subdivider shall file a certified survey
map with the Planning Commission, which shall recommend approval, approval
conditionally, or rejection of the map. Following the Planning Commission
recommendation, the Board of Trustees shall within 40 days approve, approve
conditionally or reject the map. The subdivider shall be notified in writing of
any condition of approval or the reasons for rejection.
   (D)   Requirements.
      (1)   To the extent reasonably practicable, the division of land shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter governing general requirements,
design standards, and required improvements.
      (2)   The survey shall be performed and the map prepared by a Registered
Illinois Land Surveyor.
      (3)   All land divisions within the village’s corporate limits shall be
served by public sewer and water facilities. All land divisions in areas not
serviced by sanitary sewers shall conform to the minimum lot area requirements
of §
151.064, the zoning code, and all regulations of the Winnebago County Health
Department.
      (4)   All corners shall be monumented as follows:
         (a)   All lot corners shall be monumented in the field by iron pins at
least 36 inches long and 5/8-inch in diameter, or by round or square iron bars
at least 36 inches long of similar cross sections.
         (b)   The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be
monumented in the field by iron pins at least 48 inches long and 3/4-inch in
diameter or by round or square iron bars at least 48 inches long of similar
cross sections. These monuments shall be placed at the point of intersection of
the river or stream lot line with a meander line established not less than 20
feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
      (5)   The survey map shall be prepared in accordance with §
151.049 on one or more sheets of durable white paper 8½ inches wide by 14
inches long. All lines shall be made with nonfading black ink on a scale of not
more than 500 feet to the inch.
   (E)   Certificates and affidavits.
      (1)   The survey map shall include the affidavit of the surveyor who
surveyed and mapped the parcel, typed, lettered or reproduced legibly with
nonfading black ink, giving a clear and concise description of the land
surveyed by bearings and distances, commencing with some corner marked and
established in the United States Public Land Survey or some corner providing
reference to a corner marked and established in the United States Public Land
Survey. Such affidavit shall include the statement of the surveyor to the
effect that he or she has fully complied with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The certificate of approval of the Planning Commission shall be
typed, lettered, or reproduced legibly with nonfading black ink on the face of
the survey map.
      (3)   Certificate of dedications, easements and reservations shall be
included when applicable.
   (F)   Recording the survey map. The survey map shall be filed by the Village
Clerk for record with the County Recorder of Winnebago County, Illinois. All
expenses for recording shall be paid by the subdivider.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.041 SUBDIVISIONS: STEP 1—SITE ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST AND CONCEPT PLAN.
   Figure 1 represents the typical subdivision review process in the village.
Before filing an application for approval of a subdivision, or condominium plat
with three or more building sites, the subdivider or condominium developer
shall prepare the following, unless exempted by other sections of this chapter.
   (A)   A site assessment checklist per the requirements of §
151.042. A site assessment report per the requirements of §
151.043 may also be required, following village staff review of the site
assessment checklist.
   (B)   A concept plan per the requirements of §
151.044. Concept plans are not required for planned unit developments (PUDs).
For such projects, a PUD overall development plan (ODP) shall substitute for a
concept plan.
   Figure 1: Summary of Typical Subdivision/Condominium Plat Review Process
Subdivider submits site assessment checklist & concept plan (site assessment
report may be required)
Village staff review concept plan submittal and schedule committee review, if
necessary (within 30 days of submittal)
Subdivider submits tentative plat and associated plans and begins development
agreement negotiations with village
Planning Commission recommends approval or denial of tentative plat and
forwards plat to Board of Trustees (within 45 days of submittal), subdivider
and village finalize development agreement as a condition of tentative plat
approval
Board of Trustees approves or denies tentative plat (within 30 days of Planning
Commission recommendation)
Subdivider submits final plat
Planning Commission recommends approval or denial of final plat and forwards
plat to Board of Trustees (within 30 days of submittal)
Board of Trustees approves final plat (within 30 days of Planning Commission
recommendation); subdivider records plat (within 90 days of approval)
 
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.042 SUBDIVISIONS: SITE ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the site assessment checklist is to provide
the basis for an orderly, systematic review of the effects of new subdivisions,
as well as condominium developments consisting of more than three individual
building sites, upon the community in accordance with the principles and
procedures of 765 ILCS 205.
   (B)   Coverage. The site assessment checklist requirement shall apply to all
subdivisions and condominium plats with three or more building sites.
   (C)   Site assessment checklist form. The subdivider or condominium
developer shall complete the site assessment checklist form, found in Appendix
2 of this chapter, and submit the checklist to the Plats Officer prior to
submittal of a tentative plat.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.043 SUBDIVISIONS: SITE ASSESSMENT REPORT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Determination of need for site assessment report. Prior to accepting a
tentative plat for review, the Planning Commission or village staff may, for
reasons stated in a written correspondence setting forth specific questions on
which it requires research, data and input from the subdivider or condominium
developer and other affected persons, decide that the site assessment checklist
raises unusually significant questions on the effects on the environment and/or
that review by other village committees and staff is required. The written
request shall set a reasonable date for the return of the requested data and
information from the subdivider or condominium developer and it may specify the
format in which the data is to be presented.
   (B)   Hearing on site assessment report. Following response to the written
request to the Plats Officer, the village shall distribute the report to all
interested persons or agencies. The Planning Commission may schedule and hold a
public hearing on the findings of the report. If scheduled, the hearing shall
be preceded by a notice not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to
the date of the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village and by notifying the record title owners of the adjacent property
by U.S. Mail at the address from the latest adopted tax roles. Persons
attending such hearing shall be afforded an opportunity to comment on the
report.
   (C)   Review of site assessment report.  The Planning Commission shall
review the site assessment report, with supporting data, department and
committee reviews and any other data required for determining the suitability
of the land for the proposed development. Within 30 days after submission of
the site assessment report by the subdivider or condominium developer, the
Planning Commission shall decide whether the affected land is suitable for
development per §
151.008. If determined unsuitable, the Planning Commission shall provide its
reasons in writing, and the subdivider or condominium developer shall have the
opportunity to remedy the reasons before a tentative plat or condominium plat
may be filed.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.044 SUBDIVISIONS: CONCEPT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the concept plan is to depict the general
intent of the subdivider or condominium developer in terms of general layout of
the subdivision or condominium development and its relationship to nearby
properties, roads, utilities and other public facilities. In conjunction with
the site assessment checklist, the concept plan provides an opportunity to
review the general intent and impact of the proposed subdivision, or
condominium development, without the need for detailed engineering, surveying,
and other time consuming and costly processes associated with the preparation
of a tentative plat. The concept plan shall be drawn in general conformance
with the recommendations of the village comprehensive plan and/or official map.
   (B)   Coverage. The concept plan shall indicate a proposed subdivision or
building placement pattern for all contiguous lots or parcels owned or
controlled by the subdivider or condominium developer. The Plats Officer may
waive this requirement in the case where the remainder of the area owned or
controlled by the subdivider or condominium developer is included in a detailed
neighborhood development plan adopted as a component of the village’s
comprehensive plan, and the subdivider or condominium developer demonstrates an
intent to subdivide or develop according to that plan or to a concept plan,
overall development plan, or tentative plat previously submitted and reviewed
by the village.
   (C)   Village review. At its option, village staff may choose to present the
concept plan to the Planning Commission and/or Park, Recreation and
Conservation Committee for their review and comment within 30 days of its
submittal. The concept plan shall be submitted and reviewed by the village
prior to the filing of a tentative plat or condominium plat.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.045 SUBDIVISIONS: STEP 2—PRE-APPLICATION MEETING ON CONCEPT.
   (A)   Subdivider-village staff meeting. Within 30 days of submittal of
documents specified in §§
151.042,
151.043 and
151.044, a pre-application meeting may be required by the Plats Officer and the
Village Engineer to assist the subdivider or condominium developer in keeping
apprised of the objectives of these regulations, the village’s comprehensive
plan and elements thereof, the village’s official map and any pertinent
ordinances and plans, and to reach conclusions regarding the objectives and
general program for the proposed development.
   (B)   Village commission reviews. The Plats Officer may require, or the
subdivider or condominium developer may request, Planning Commission and/or
Park, Recreation and Conservation Committee review and comment on the submitted
site assessment checklist and/or concept plan. The appropriate commissions
shall have 30 days from the date of concept plan submittal to complete their
reviews.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.046 SUBDIVISIONS: STEP 3—TENTATIVE PLAT.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section apply only to subdivisions as
defined in §
151.012 and condominium plats that contain three or more individual building
sites. All subdivisions within the village’s corporate limits shall be served
by public sewer and water facilities. All subdivisions in areas not serviced by
sanitary sewers shall conform to the minimum lot area requirements of §
151.064 and all regulations of the Winnebago County Health Department.
   (B)   Filing tentative plat. The subdivider shall prepare a tentative plat
of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the requirements of §§
151.047 and
151.052, and shall file with the Plats Officer an application in writing for
the tentative approval of said plat, accompanied by a reproducible subdivision
drawing and 30 black and white prints or other acceptable reproductions at
least 20 days prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which action
is desired. A tentative plat shall not be submitted prior to village review of
the site assessment checklist, the site assessment report when required, or the
concept plan within the review period specified in §§
151.042 through
151.045.
   (C)   Coverage of a tentative plat. The subdivider or condominium developer
shall in all cases submit a tentative plat for the lands to be included in the
first phase of the final plat. If the concept plan did not include all adjacent
lands owned or controlled by the subdivider or condominium developer, then the
tentative plat shall include the entire adjacent area owned or controlled by
the subdivider or condominium developer. The Planning Commission may waive this
second requirement in the case where the remainder of the area owned and
controlled by the subdivider or condominium developer is included in a detailed
neighborhood development plan adopted as a component of the village’s
comprehensive plan, and the subdivider or condominium developer demonstrates an
intent to subdivide or develop according to that plan.
   (D)   Action by the Plats Officer.
      (1)   The Plats Officer shall transmit copies of the tentative plat to
the Village Engineer and other village officials and other agencies as deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission for their recommendations. These
recommendations in respect thereto shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission not later than five days before the meeting at which the tentative
plat will be reviewed.
      (2)   The Plats Officer shall transmit a copy of the tentative plat and
any additional pertinent information to the Winnebago County Soil and Water
Conservation District in accordance with the Illinois Soil and Water
Conservation District Law, as amended.
   (E)   Action by the Planning Commission and Board of Trustees.
      (1)   A tentative plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission to
determine its conformity to this chapter, the comprehensive plan and all other
ordinances and regulations in force which affect subdivisions.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall, within 45 days of the receipt of a
complete application for the approval of a tentative plat; approve or
disapprove the plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any
changes that will be required. If agreed to in writing by the subdivider, the
time may be extended for no more than 30 days after which one copy shall be
returned to the subdivider with the date of the approval or disapproval, and
the reason therefor, accompanying the plat.
      (3)   If the tentative plat as originally submitted, or as changed or
modified, as required by the Planning Commission, meets the requirement of this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall give it approval and it shall then be
referred to the Board of Trustees for tentative approval. Within 30 days of its
receipt of the tentative plat from the Planning Commission, the Village Board
of Trustees shall approve or disapprove the plat, or approve it with
conditions. If the tentative plat is disapproved, objections to it shall be
noted and it shall be returned to the Planning Commission; if it is approved,
the Village Clerk shall affix his or her signature to it with the notation that
it has received Village Board of Trustees approval and it shall then be
returned to the subdivider for compliance with final approval requirements and
conditions.
      (4)   Tentative approval by the Village Board of Trustees shall give the
applicant the following rights for a 12-month period from the date of approval:
         (a)   That the general terms and conditions under which the tentative
approval was granted will not be changed by the village;
         (b)   That the applicant may submit on or before the expiration date
the whole or parts of the tentatively approved plat for final approval through
a final plat as provided under this chapter.
   (F)   Development agreement required. At the time of submission of a
tentative plat, the subdivider or condominium developer and Village Engineer
shall negotiate and finalize a development agreement specifying
responsibilities of both parties, as described in greater detail in §
151.071. A final development agreement shall be a condition of tentative plat
approval. Prior to approval of the tentative plat by the Village Board of
Trustees, the subdivider or condominium developer and Village Engineer shall be
in substantial agreement as to the terms of the development agreement. Village
Board of Trustees approval shall be conditioned upon the execution of the
development agreement.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.047 SUBDIVISIONS: MATERIALS REQUIRED WITH TENTATIVE PLAT SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Every proposed subdivision or condominium plat containing three or
more building sites shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for tentative
or conditional approval in the form of a tentative plat prior to the submission
of a final plat. The tentative plat is not intended to be a final record plat
and must be prepared in such form as not to be confused with a final plat. Its
purpose is to show graphically all facts needed to enable the Planning
Commission and other public bodies to determine whether the proposed layout of
the land in question is satisfactory from the standpoint of the public
interest. The tentative plat shall be prepared by a qualified professional,
trained and experienced in the layout of subdivisions.
   (B)   The graphic and descriptive items laid out in §§
151.048 and
151.049 are normally required to be shown on the tentative plat and the
accompanying application for approval. The lack of information under any item
specified herein, or improper information supplied by the applicant, shall be
cause for disapproval of a tentative plat.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.048 SUBDIVISIONS: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF TENTATIVE PLAT.
   The owner or his or her agent shall file a “Declaration of Intent to
Subdivide” on forms furnished by the Planning Commission and this shall include
or be accompanied by the following information:
   (A)   Declaration of intent. The declaration of intent to subdivide shall
take the following form:
“I, owner, sponsor, optionee of a parcel of land described as follows:
(General description, subdivision name, location by section-township and range,
reference to roads) hereby formally announce my intention to subdivide said
property and hereby submit a tentative plat of the subdivision to the Planning
Commission.
Signed this____day of__________________, 20__.
Signature__________________________________
   (B)   Name for file identification.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision.
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded in
Winnebago County.
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.)
   (C)   Location and description of property. Location of property by
government lot, section, township, range and county.
   (D)   Basic facts and proposals pertaining to the property.
      (1)   Size of tract in gross and net acres. Existing lots, if any, in
square feet;
      (2)   Existing zoning classification of property and any rezoning
proposed to be requested;
      (3)   Number of lots, number of dwelling units if different, and land use
types proposed in subdivision;
      (4)   Net area of lots proposed; with minimum and average lengths and
widths;
      (5)   Lineal feet of streets in the subdivision;
      (6)   Proposed type of water and sewer facilities and other engineering
plans required under §
151.073;
      (7)   Any other proposals, such as parcels of land intended to be
dedicated, conveyed, or reserved for public use, and the conditions proposed
for such disposal and use.
      (8)   A drawing of the tentative plat per the requirements of §
151.049 of this chapter.
      (9)   Topographic and surface water studies per the requirements of §
151.065 of this chapter.
         (10)   Erosion and sedimentation control measures to be taken during
construction as required in §
151.066.
   (E)   Information as to ownership, preparation of plat and submission
thereof.
      (1)   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner or
agent of property and citation of last instrument conveying title to each
parcel of property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor,
grantee, date and land records reference;
      (2)   Citation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements affecting
the property;
      (3)   Existing covenants on the property, if any;
      (4)   Name and address, including telephone number, of professional
responsible for subdivision design, Registered Professional Engineer of
Illinois responsible for the design of public improvements, and Registered Land
Surveyor of Illinois responsible for surveys, shown on tentative plat as
submitted.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.049 SUBDIVISIONS: DRAWING OF TENTATIVE PLAT.
   Along with the application and materials described in §
151.048, 30 copies of the tentative plat or tentative condominium plat shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission. These may be blueline or blackline
prints, 24 inches wide by 36 inches long, at a scale of not more than 100 feet
to the inch and shall show correctly on its face the following information:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point;
   (B)   The proposed subdivision name, which must be the same as that
specified in the application;
   (C)   The name and address of the owner, the subdivider and the surveyor
responsible for surveys;
   (D)   Location of the subdivision by government lot, quarter section,
section, township, range and county;
   (E)   A vicinity sketch and small scale drawing of the section or area
within which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision
indicated thereon;
   (F)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot;
   (G)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
   (H)   Zoning on lands adjacent to the subdivision;
   (I)   Location, width, and names of all existing and platted streets,
alleys, and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility rights-of-
way, parks, cemeteries, watercourses, dry runs, marshes, wetlands, floodplains
including lines denoting floodway and flood fringe boundaries, wooded areas
(including individual trees with a diameter at breast height of six inches or
more), steep slopes of 10% or greater grade, drainage ditches, permanent
buildings, bridges and other pertinent data as determined by the Planning
Commission;
   (J)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and the approximate high- and low-water elevations of such lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to in the USGS datum plane;
   (K)   If the subdivision or condominium plat borders a lake, river or
stream, the distance and bearings of a meander line established not less than
20 feet back from the ordinary high-water mark of such waterway, or FEMA Flood
Insurance Maps or other reasonable source;
   (L)   Drainage calculations, cross sections, minimum building elevation for
first floors, and easements associated the 100-year flood level from a
registered professional engineer for all major waterways and drainageways;
   (M)   Layout, width, grades and proposed names of all new streets and
rights-of-way, including alleys, highways, easements for sewers and water mains
and other public utilities;
   (N)   Existing topography showing the elevation of the land within the
proposed plat prior to the commencement of any change in elevations as a part
of any phase of subdividing;
   (O)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto. The location and
size of the nearest water main and sanitary and storm sewers are to be
indicated upon the tentative plat;
   (P)   Plans of proposed utility layouts (water, sewers, and storm drains)
showing connections to any existing or proposed utility systems;
   (Q)   Approximate dimensions and areas of lots. All lots over one acre in
size shall have the area marked within the lot. Lot area shall be all area
enclosed by the property lines not portions of adjacent roads but rights-of-
way;
   (R)   Proposed building setback lines based on the requirements of the
zoning code;
   (S)   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents and central angles
on all streets;
   (T)   Approximate location and area of all property proposed to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all
property owners in the subdivision or condominium plat, with the conditions, if
any, of such dedication or reservation;
   (U)   Street profile plans for all existing and proposed streets;
   (V)   Subsurface soil, rock and water conditions including depth to bedrock
and average depth to groundwater table. Where a subdivider or condominium
developer’s subsoil investigation indicates potential for groundwater less than
ten feet from the proposed street centerline elevation, the subdivider or
condominium developer shall so note on the face of the tentative and final plat
and indicate the lots affected;
   (W)   Location and approximate dimensions of any sites that are to be used
for group housing, shopping centers, church sites or other non-public uses.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.050 SUBDIVISIONS: STEP 4—FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Overview. After Board of Trustees approval of the tentative plat, the
subdivider or condominium developer may prepare and submit to the Planning
Commission the final plat for the subdivision or condominium plat incorporating
all required modifications to the tentative plat. During the final plat stage,
the actions listed as follows shall be taken.
   (B)   Filing of final plat. The subdivider shall file with the Plats
Officer, within 12 months of the date of approval or conditional approval of
the tentative plat, unless such period is extended by the Board of Trustees, 30
copies of the final plat which shall conform to the requirements of §§
151.052, 151.053 and 151.054 and 30 copies of related documents, plans and
specifications. The Plats Officer shall forthwith transmit all copies of the
final plat to the Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Conformance with zoning code. The Plats Officer shall not sign the
final plat until the subdivider has met all conditions and requirements of the
village zoning code.
   (D)   Action of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt thereof, the Planning Commission shall examine the
final plat and all necessary certificates to determine its conformance to the
tentative plat and the requirements established in this chapter, and shall
within 30 days of its submission, unless the time is extended by the Planning
Commission in agreement with the developer, either approve or disapprove said
final plat. If the final plat is not in substantial conformance with the
tentative plat, the Planning Commission may require the preparation and
submittal of a new tentative plat or disapprove said final plat.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission approves the final plat, such approval
and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of the
Chairman of the Commission and the Plats Officer and the plat shall be
transmitted to the Board of Trustees for the necessary action on the final
approval of the plat and on any proposed dedications.
   (E)   Action of the Board of Trustees.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall approve or disapprove the final plat
and accept or reject the areas preserved for or dedicated to the public within
30 days of its recommendation for approval or denial by the Planning
Commission, unless the subdivider is notified of objections to the plat or the
time is extended by agreement with the subdivider.
      (2)   After the final plat shall have been approved by the Board of
Trustees and all applicable engineering plans, conditions, and development
agreements have been finalized, the Village Clerk shall sign the plat and cause
a certified copy of the resolution approving such plat to be attached to the
plat and returned to the subdivider. Copies of the resolution and plat shall
also be transmitted to the Planning Commission, Village Engineer, and Village
Clerk for their files.
   (F)   Action by the subdivider. Upon receipt of the final plat approval by
the Village Board of Trustees, and the placement of the Village Clerk’s
signature on the plat, the subdivider shall record the plat with the Winnebago
County Recorder’s Office within 90 days of the date of the Board action.
Failure to record the final plat within 90 days will void the Board of
Trustees’ action and necessitate reinstitution of the final plat procedure in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Development agreement required.  Prior to Village Clerk signing of the
final plat, the development agreement specified in §
151.071 shall be signed by both parties and all conditions of plat approval
shall be satisfied to the extent possible. Prior to the signing of said
agreement by the Village President and the Village Clerk, the subdivider or
condominium developer shall pay the village all required fees, charges and
deposits, and provide any required performance guarantees, except as otherwise
provided for in the development agreement.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.051 SUBDIVISIONS: FINAL PLAT COVERAGE.
   The final plat shall include the entire area owned or controlled by the
subdivider or condominium developer within the phase of the subdivision for
which final approval is sought. A final plat may constitute only a portion of
the area contained in the approved tentative plat provided that the public
improvements constructed in the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and
of themselves to accomplish a proper development and to provide adequately for
the health, safety, and convenience of the proposed residents therein and for
adequate access to contiguous areas.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.052 SUBDIVISIONS: APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   Thirty written copies of an application by the owner or his or her agent for
approval, on forms furnished by the Plats Officer, shall accompany each final
plat and contain the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision and the description of blocks and lots included on
the plat. The subdivision name is subject to approval by the Board of Trustees
and shall not duplicate any subdivision name previously recorded in Winnebago
County;
   (B)   Location of subdivision by government lot, section, township, range
and county;
   (C)   Name, date of approval and tile number of the tentative plat upon
which the final plat is based;
   (D)   Zoning classification of the property;
   (E)   Total number of lots and/or parcels included on the plat;
   (F)   Total area (gross area) shown on the plat, including streets, and
total area dedicated to public use, if any;
   (G)   Existing or proposed covenants, if any. Reference shall be made to any
private restrictions, and plats shall contain proper acknowledgments of owners
and mortgagees accepting said platting and restrictions;
   (H)   Name and address, including telephone number, of the owner or his or
her agent and the surveyor responsible for the survey;
   (I)   A mathematical plat closure shall be submitted in conjunction with the
final plat.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.053 SUBDIVISIONS: DRAWING OF FINAL PLAT.
   Along with the application and materials described in §
151.052, 30 copies of the final plat drawing shall be submitted with the
following characteristics:
   (A)   The final plat shall be drawn with waterproof nonfading black ink, at
a scale of not more than 100 feet to one inch, on mylar or its equivalent, 24
inches wide by 36 inches long. When more than one sheet is used for any plat,
each sheet shall be numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation giving
the total number of sheets in the plat and showing the relation of that sheet
to the other sheets, and each sheet shall bear the name of the subdivision. The
developer shall also be required to submit a CD-ROM of the final plat in Auto-
Cad format that is acceptable to the village before the plat is recorded.
   (B)   Each final plat shall show correctly on its face or be accompanied by
the following information:
      (1)   Map and engineering information.
         (a)   Date, scale and north point;
         (b)   The exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and divided;
         (c)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in
the field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners
or other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length and weight per
lineal foot of the monuments as required by the statutes of the State of
Illinois and §
151.072;
         (d)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries, the
boundary lines of all blocks, public grounds, streets and alleys, and all lot
lines, except that when the lines in any tier of lots are parallel, it shall be
sufficient to make the bearings of the outer lines on one tier thereof.
Easements shall be shown by centerline and width when lines are parallel to a
boundary, otherwise boundary bearings and distances shall be shown. Where the
exterior boundary lines show bearings or lengths which vary from those recorded
in butting plats or certified surveys, there shall be the following note placed
along such lines “recorded as (show recorded bearing or length or both)” and
name of the recorded plat or boundary map;
         (e)   Blocks, if designated, shall be consecutively numbered, or
lettered in alphabetical order. The blocks in numbered additions to
subdivisions bearing the same name shall be numbered or lettered consecutively
through several additions;
         (f)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered. Outlots
shall be lettered in alphabetical order. If blocks are numbered or lettered,
outlots shall be lettered in alphabetical order within each block;
         (g)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks,
lots, parcels, public grounds, easements, and rights-of-way or enough
information so that the length of these lines can be derived by simple
calculations. Where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the length of the
chord shall be shown;
         (h)   The widths of all streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way;
         (i)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines on
all lots and parcels and a notation of the distance between such lines and the
street right-of-way line;
         (j)   The area and dimensions of each lot or parcel containing an area
of one acre or more;
         (k)   The street names of all public streets;
         (l)   Abutting street lines of adjoining subdivisions, shown in their
correct locations by dashed lines;
         (m)   The exact width of all easements, streets and alleys;
         (n)   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the
surveyor, the distance and bearings thereof and the distance between the point
of intersection of such meander lines with lot lines and the ordinary high
water mark;
         (o)   The centerline of all streets;
         (p)   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary and
block angles. When such angles are between a curve and its tangent, the angle
shown shall be that between the tangent and the main chord of the curve. When
between curves of different radii, the angle between the main chord;
         (q)   When strict compliance with a provision of this section will
entail undue or unnecessary difficulty or tend to render the plat more
difficult to read, and when the information on the plat is sufficient for the
exact retracement of the measurements and bearings or other necessary
dimensions, the Planning Commission, upon the recommendations of the Village
Engineer, may waive such strict compliance.
      (2)   Name, location and position.  The name of the subdivision shall be
printed on the plat in prominent letters, and the following information
relating the position and location of the subdivision shall be shown thereon:
         (a)   The location of the subdivision by government lot, recorded
private claim, quarter section, section, township, range, and county noted
immediately under the name given the subdivision;
         (b)   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distances
and bearings with reference to a corner or corners established in the U.S.
Public Land Survey;
         (c)   The names of adjoining streets, state highways and subdivisions
shown in their proper location underscored by a dotted line;
         (d)   Abutting street and state highway lines of adjoining plats shown
in their proper location by dotted lines. The width of these streets and
highways shall be given also.
      (3)   Roads and public spaces.
         (a)   The name of each road or street in the plat shall be printed
therein in prominent letters.
         (b)   All lands dedicated to public use except roads and streets shall
be clearly marked “Dedicated to the Public.”
         (c)   All roads or streets shown on the plat which are not dedicated
to public use shall be clearly marked “Private Street.”
         (d)   Each lot within the plat must have access to a public or private
street unless otherwise provided by local ordinance.
      (4)   Site conditions and topography.
         (a)   All existing buildings.
         (b)   All watercourses, drainage ditches and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision.
         (c)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes, rivers, or streams at
the date of the survey and the approximate high and low water elevations of
such lakes, rivers, and streams. All elevations shall be referred to the
village datum plane.
         (d)   The boundaries and labels for all designated floodplains and
wetlands.
         (e)   Drainage easements and building elevations as indicated in §
151.065.
         (f)   For all lots, finish first floor elevations and top-of-curb
elevations.
      (5)   Engineering plans as described in §
151.073(C).
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.054 SUBDIVISIONS: RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
Office of the County Recorder of Winnebago County, the certificates found in
Appendix 1 of this chapter, together with the certificate of approval of the
Board of Trustees, shall accompany it. These certificates shall be lettered or
printed legibly on the face of the final plat.
   (A)   Topographical and surface water studies. All requirements and
conditions of §
151.065 shall be adhered to in the processing of final subdivision plats.
   (B)   Certificates. The certificates found in the Appendix 1 to this chapter
and affidavits shall appear on the final plat. They must be duly signed by the
appropriate person before the plat is entitled to record.
   (C)   Easement provision.
      (1)   An easement is hereby reserved for and granted governmental bodies
and other public utilities and their respective successors and assigns within
the area as shown by dotted lines on the plat and marked “
      (2)   If the grade of the subdivided property must be so altered or if
storm and sanitary sewer facilities require that the underground utility be
moved or otherwise altered, the owners, their respective successors and
assigns, shall reimburse the utility company for the necessary expenses
involved.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.055 EXTRATERRITORIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following policies shall govern the village’s approval and regulation of
subdivisions and condominium plats consisting of three or more individual
building sites within the village’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (A)   The village will attempt to achieve consistency with locally and
county adopted plans. To the extent that the policies of the village are more
restrictive, the village’s policies shall prevail.
   (B)   All subdivisions as well as condominium plats that consist of over
three individual building sites, within Rockton’s designated utility service
area shall be subject to the land reservation or dedication requirements of
this chapter. This specifically means the following:
      (1)   All parklands proposed in adopted elements of the village’s
comprehensive plan shall be reserved or dedicated to the extent allowed under
this chapter.
      (2)   Any waterway or stormwater management area identified on the
village comprehensive plan or official map shall be dedicated and provided in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Any lands falling within the limits of a floodplain or wetland, as
mapped by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, FEMA, Winnebago County
or the village, will be required to be dedicated or located within a recorded
public open space easement.
   (C)   All subdivision and condominium plats within the village’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be required to follow erosion and
sedimentation control plans in compliance with the requirements of §
151.066.
   (D)   All subdivision and condominium plats within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction shall pay village-required review fees contained in this chapter.
   (E)   All subdivision and condominium plats located within the village’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be designed to be served by public water
facilities and sanitary sewer in the future. In addition, the village shall not
extend its sanitary sewer facilities to lands located outside of the village’s
corporate limits, except as otherwise provided through written
intergovernmental agreements.
   (F)   All technical and performance standards of this chapter will apply to
the extent practicable and allowed by Illinois Law.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
**** DIMENSIONAL AND DESIGN STANDARDS ****
§ 151.060 CONFORMANCE TO APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the design standards established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations:
   (A)   The provisions of 65 ILCS and 765 ILCS;
   (B)   The village zoning code and all other applicable ordinances of the
appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   The comprehensive plan and all elements thereof, and official map of
the village or any portions thereof;
   (D)   The special requirements of this chapter and any rules of the
Winnebago County Health Department and the Illinois State Environmental
Protection Agency in relation to lot size and lot elevation if the subdivision
is not served by public water or by a public sewer and provision for one or
both of these services has not been made;
   (E)   The rules of the Illinois Department of Transportation relating to
safety of access and the preservation of the public interest and investment in
the streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts a state trunk
highway or connecting street.
(Ord. § 1000, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.061 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General considerations.
      (1)   Streets shall be designed and located in relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions and natural terrain features such
as streams and existing tree growth (with a desire to preserve trees greater
than six inches in diameter), to public convenience and safety, and in
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of land to be served by such streets.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees has the responsibility of determining the
construction and design standards applicable to any and all segments of the
village street system, since public improvements such as water, sewage
disposal, drainage, street reconstruction, sidewalk installation, along with
other utilities and traffic improvements, may eventually be undertaken and
financed from public tax sources.
      (3)   The minimum IBR (Illinois Bearing Ratio) which would allow the
stated pavement cross- section is 2.25. If soils in the area of designated
roadways have a lower IBR then the pavement must be designed according to
Illinois Department of Transportation standards which will take into account
the lower IBR.
   (B)   Public street arrangement.
      (1)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established in
the comprehensive plan, detailed neighborhood development plan, or on the
official map of the village.
      (2)   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, churches and
shopping centers; to population densities and to the pattern of existing and
proposed land uses.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to
the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient safe access to property.
      (4)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily
be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, culs-de-sac, or U-shaped
streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout and/or the preservation of natural features or terrain.
      (5)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission such extension
is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
      (6)   In business and industrial developments, the street and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities and the provision of alleys, truck loading and
maneuvering areas, fire protection and walks and parking areas so as to
minimize conflict of movement between the various types of traffic, including
pedestrian.
   (C)   Railroad and highways. Railroad rights-of-way and limited access
highways, including arterial streets, where so located as to affect the
subdivision of adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
      (1)   In residential zoning districts, no site rearing on a railroad
right-of-way or limited access highway shall have a depth of less than 130
feet. A strip of land at least 25 feet in depth at the rear of the lots shall
be designated as a buffer strip. This strip shall be part of the platted lots
and shall be designated on the plot: “This strip is reserved for the planting
of trees and shrubs by the owners. The placement of structures hereon is
prohibited.” A planting plan showing the locations, size and species of trees
and other landscaping within the required 25-foot strip shall be required to be
submitted with the tentative plat.
      (2)   In districts zoned for business or industrial uses, the nearest
street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad shall,
wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable
depth for business or industrial sites and in no case be less than the minimum
lot depth established in the village zoning code.
      (3)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall to the extent practicable, be at a distance
of at least 150 feet from the railroad right-of-way. Such distance shall be
determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for future
separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
   (D)   Access to major streets. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
existing or proposed major arterial or collector street, the Planning
Commission or controlling jurisdiction may require that access to such streets
be limited and/or require improvements to the arterial street or collector
street by one of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the major street and
front onto one or more local streets: no access shall be provided from the
major street and screen planting shall be provided by the subdivider or
developer in a strip of land along the rear property line of such lots.
      (2)   A marginal access or service street (separated from the major
street by a planting or grass strip and having access thereto at suitable
points).
      (3)   The number of minor streets and driveways entering the major street
shall be kept to a minimum, per division (M) of this section.
   (E)   Public street design standards. The following minimum standards shall
apply to the design of all public streets including culs-de-sac:
 
                       Minor Streets Arterial and Collector Cul-de-Sac Streets
                                     Streets
Right-of-way           66 feet       80–100+ feet         120 foot diameter
                                     (see below)
Pavement width (face-  30 feet       36 feet or more        88 foot diameter
to-face)
Sidewalk width         5 feet        5 feet                 5 feet
Sidewalk distance from 1 foot        1 foot                 1 foot
right-of-way
 
   (F)   Section line roads. A 100-foot right-of-way shall be laid out on
section and half-section lines, where possible. Where physical obstructions
occur, or where a more appropriate location can be found, such roads may
deviate from section and half-section lines, provided the required width of 100
feet is carried through to a suitable connection. Such deviation shall be made
only with the consent and approval of the Plats Officer and the Superintendent
of County Highways.
   (G)   Arterial street standards. The right-of-way width of all arterial
streets, as defined in §
151.012, shall be that indicated on the official map of the village, or if no
width is indicated there, such width and all other design standards shall be
determined by the Planning Commission upon recommendations of the Village
Engineer. In no case shall the right-of-way width of an arterial street be less
than 100 feet.
   (H)   Sidewalks. All public streets within the corporate limits of the
village shall be bordered by sidewalks on both sides of the street. The
Planning Commission may allow the substitution of a multi-use path for a
sidewalk on one side of the street, if applicable AASHTO (American Association
of Street and Highway Transportation Officials) design standards are met.
      (1)   Sidewalks and walkways shall comply with the applicable
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   Intersections of sidewalks with streets shall be designed with
clearly designed edges. Crosswalks shall be clearly marked with contrasting
paving materials at the edges, raised pavement, and/or striping.
      (3)   Where necessary to maintain continuity of the pedestrian
circulation system, such as for long blocks or at the ends of culs-de-sac,
between-lot walkways or paths may be required. The Planning Commission may
require additional connections wherever access to parks, schools, and other
services is desired as identified through the plat development review process,
with the goal of maximizing pedestrian and bicycle access internal to the
subdivision and adjoining land.
      (4)   Concrete sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet in width, and
shall be required in accordance with the requirements of §
151.061(H). Paved, multi-use paths shall be a minimum of ten feet in width
(applicable AASHTO standard).
   (I)   Street grades. The grade of arterial and collector streets shall not
exceed 5% unless necessitated by exceptional topography and approved by the
Planning Commission. The grade of all other streets shall not exceed 7%. The
minimum grade of all streets shall be 0.4% grade.
   (J)   Tangents. A tangent at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on major arterial streets and collector streets.
   (K)   Culs-de-sac, dead-end streets, stub streets.
      (1)   A cul-de-sac shall not be longer than 600 feet in residential
subdivisions.
      (2)   All cul-de-sac streets designated to have one end permanently
closed shall terminate in a circular turn-around having a minimum right-of-way
radius of 60 feet and a minimum outside pavement radius of 44 feet, curb-face
to curb-face.
      (3)   All dead-end streets or stub streets shall be improved to the
limits of the subdivision plat and terminated by a temporary turnaround or
barricade improvement as recommended by the Village Engineer, approved by the
Board of Trustees and installed by the developer at his or her own expense.
   (L)   Half streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out so
as to eliminate or avoid half-streets. Where a new subdivision abuts an
existing street of inadequate right-of-way width, additional right-of-way width
may be required to be dedicated by the subdivider or condominium developer to
meet the requirements of this section.
      (M)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at any angle of
less than 70 degrees shall not be allowed. Not more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The number of intersections along arterial streets and highways
shall be held to a minimum. The distance between such intersections shall not
be less than 400 feet, as measured from centerline to centerline.
      (3)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where
streets intersect major arterial and collector streets their alignment shall be
continuous.
      (4)   Minimum curb radius shall be 20 feet for minor streets and 25 feet
for collector streets. In any case, where more dedication is deemed necessary
to provide safe sight distance or for traffic channelization, the Planning
Commission may specify a greater cutoff than the normal cited above. Alley
intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block shall have the
corners cut off in accordance with standard engineering practice, to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (5)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. Where the grade of any street at the approach of an intersection
exceeds 7%, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than 4% grade
a distance of 25 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of
intersecting street.
      (6)   On a corner lot, no fence, wall, hedge or other obstruction, except
the natural grade of a site shall be allowed within a triangular area formed by
the street property lines and a line connecting points on the street property
lines equal to one-half the right-of-way width measured from the street
intersection. In connection with the grading of a public right-of-way, the
developer shall not cause any earth banks to be created on corner lots and
shall cut such vegetation as found in the above mentioned area.
   (N)   Street names. All street names are to be approved by the Planning
Commission and the post office prior to final plat approval. No street names
shall be used which will duplicate or be confused with the name of existing
streets. New streets which are extensions of or obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall bear the name of the existing streets.
   (O)   Street paving. The minimum requirement for lands within residential
zoning districts shall be ten inches of compacted aggregate base course, type A
or B; street surface shall consist of 1½ inches bituminous concrete binder
course, and 1½ inches bituminous concrete surface course, Class I, Type 2, all
in accordance with applicable sections of the Illinois Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications. The minimum requirement for lands
within commercial and industrial zoning districts shall be a minimum of 12
inches of aggregate base course, and two inches each of binder and surface
courses. If poor soil conditions or high density truck traffic is found or
expected, the street structure shall have higher requirements. All streets
shall have a paved width of a minimum of 30 feet face to face.
   (P)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided in all commercial and industrial zoning
districts, unless the Planning Commission waives this requirement where other
definite and suitable provisions are made for service access such as off-street
loading and parking, consistent with, and adequate for the uses proposed and in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning code.
      (2)   The width of alleys shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (3)   Dead-end alleys are prohibited except under very unusual
circumstances and crooked and “T” alleys shall be discouraged. Where dead-end
alleys are unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround
facilities at the dead-end.
      (4)   Alleys shall not connect to an arterial street.
      (5)   Alleys may be provided in new residential subdivisions to service
garages and for refuse collection if approved by the Planning Commission and
the Village Board of Trustees. All alleys must be paved with hard surfacing to
the specifications of the Village Engineer.
   (Q)   Storm sewers. Consistent with the requirements of §
151.065, the stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of
any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers shall be designed by the rational
method, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with plans.
Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around
any intersection in the gutter. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown
for each and every lot and block. Inlets shall be constructed in accordance
with village and Illinois Department of Transportation Standards in order to
accommodate anticipated drainage requirements. Storm sewers shall be designed
to handle a minimum 5-year event (1.3 inches/hour) and all retention areas
shall be designed to handle a minimum 100-year event.
   (R)   Private streets. Private streets shall be permitted within the various
subdivisions and condominium plats within the village under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Any private street shall have a minimum pavement width of 25 feet
along with a two-foot concrete curb and gutter or concrete gutter on each side.
      (2)   At any stage during development if either two access points or a
permanent turnaround are not yet constructed, the developer must construct
either a second temporary point of access or a temporary turnaround with
minimum dimensions of 15 feet by 30 feet to accommodate exiting emergency or
maintenance vehicles.
      (3)   The structural design specifications for private streets shall be
submitted for review and approval by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   Every private street so designed and constructed shall grant an
easement for access, for any and all public utilities, including but not
limited to water, sewer, drainage, and any other required by ordinance or law.
This easement shall be reflected upon any tentative and final plat or
condominium plat.
      (5)   No private streets shall serve as minor or collector streets and
must intersect with a public collector street or other public roadway.
      (6)   Every private street shall provide for and be maintained with
adequate access and turn-around capacity for emergency vehicles, and may be
required to provide for public transit access.
      (7)   The village shall not be responsible for maintenance, repair, snow
removal or cleaning of said streets. The responsibilities for said items shall
rest with and be guaranteed by an existing home owners’ association,
condominium association, or in the case of a new subdivision, the developer
through the submittal, recordation, and enforcement of a maintenance agreement.
(Ord. § 1001, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 1989-11, passed 12-4-89; Am. Ord. 1990-
3, passed 4-16-90; Am. Ord. 1995-49, passed 12- -95; Am. Ord. 1996-5, passed 3-
4-96; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.062 UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility placement underground. In all new subdivisions and land
divisions, utilities including gas, electric, telephone, and cable television
systems or any other commercial service, must be laid underground within the
public right-of-way or a dedicated easement. The placement of all lines laid
within the village must comply with all village ordinances, including the
distance between lines required in §
95.05(Q)(1)(f). Exceptions may be granted for land divisions and subdivisions
of seven lots or less, only by approval of the Planning Commission. The
installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance with applicable
orders, rules and regulations of the Illinois Commerce Commission now or
hereafter effective.
   (B)   Width and location. Easements for electrical, telephone, and community
television services shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and be established
where practicable at the rear of each lot and along other such lot lines as to
provide continuity of alignment from block to block; to be installed
underground within easements of dedicated public ways. Underground street light
supply lines should be designated on the plat and necessary easements provided
to furnish access to such positions. Easement provisions should appear on the
face of each final plat.
   (C)   Waterway easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm sewer or
drainage easement conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse.
The easement shall be labeled as non-buildable and non-fillable and for
drainage purposes only. If calculations are not provided, the easement shall be
established as an area 300 feet wide, with a width of 150 feet on each side of
the waterway’s centerline. Such easement shall be recorded on the final plat.
(Ord. § 1002, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2025-
27, passed 9-2-25)
§ 151.063 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Residential blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions of this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, or waterways.
      (2)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be appropriate for
the locality and the type of development contemplated, but block length in
residential areas shall not exceed 1,200 feet nor be less than 400 feet.
      (3)   Pedestrianways or crosswalks, within easements not less than ten
feet wide, may be required by the Planning Commission at the ends of culs-de-
sac and through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long to provide
circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, or other community facilities. It shall be the responsibility
of the developer to provide these facilities if so required.
   (B)   Nonresidential blocks. Blocks designed for commercial or industrial
uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable by the
Planning Commission for the prospective use.
(Ord. § 1003, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.064 LOTS.
   (A)   Dimensions. In general, the size, shape and orientation of lots or
condominium building sites shall be appropriate for the location of the
subdivision and for the type of development and the use contemplated. New lot
dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the zoning code. Lots shall
have a minimum average depth of 100 feet. Excessive depth in relation to width
shall be avoided and a proportion of two to one shall be considered a desirable
ratio. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business or
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking and
loading facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated,
as established in the zoning code.
   (B)   Lots not served by public utilities. For reasons of health and
sanitation the density of residential subdivisions shall be directly related to
the availability of public water and public sewer service. Residential lots not
served by either or both public water or sewerage facilities shall be at least
100 feet in width at the building line and one acre in lot area, and shall
comply with the rules of the Winnebago County Health Department and the
Illinois State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   Lots abutting major streets. All lots in subdivisions developed
adjacent to roadway designated as a limited access road shall be designed with
access from an internal local street system. In cases where residential lots
fronting or abutting on major streets or highways are permitted, they should be
platted with extra depth to permit generous distances between the buildings and
such trafficways.
   (D)   Street frontage. Every lot shall front on or abut a public street, not
including sites for individual condominium units. Side lot lines shall be
approximately at right angles or radial to street lines. Double frontage and
reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide
separation of residential development from major streets, or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. Lots with access only to
private drives or streets shall be permitted only with the approval of the
Planning Commission and the Village Board of Trustees and shall meet the
private street design requirements of §
151.061.
   (E)   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general stormwater drainage plan for the area. Drainage
shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from
each lot to adjacent lots.
   (F)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have a minimum
width 10% greater than the minimum width for the district as established in the
village zoning code in order to permit appropriate building setback from and
orientation to both streets. Lots on major arterial street intersections and at
all other points likely to be dangerous shall have a radius of not less than 25
feet at the street corner. On business lots a chord may be substituted for the
circular arc.
   (G)   Follow municipal limits. Lot lines shall follow municipal boundary
lines whenever practicable, rather than cross them.
   (H)   Lots along waterways. Lands lying between the meander line and the
water’s edge and any otherwise unplattable lands which lie between a proposed
subdivision or condominium plat and the water’s edge shall be included as part
of lots, outlots or public dedications in any plat abutting a lake, river or
stream.
   (I)   Flag lots. Flag lots, as defined in §
151.012, shall be prohibited within the village limits and discouraged within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. § 1004, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.065 TOPOGRAPHICAL AND SURFACE WATER STUDIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the topographical and surface water study is
to establish permanent measures for controlling stormwater flows from a
proposed subdivision or condominium plat site after the plat has been
constructed. This type of study shall be submitted at the tentative plat stage
of the subdivision approval process.
   (B)   Content of the studies. There shall be submitted simultaneously with
the tentative subdivision plat or tentative condominium plat, a study or
studies which shall show topographically and by profile the elevation of the
land prior to the commencement of any change in elevations as a part of any
phase of subdividing. In addition, if it is contemplated that such elevations,
or the flow of surface water from such land, will be changed as a result of any
portion of such subdivision development, then such study or studies shall also
show such proposed changes in the elevations and the flow of surface water from
such land. The topographical and profile studies required hereunder shall be
prepared as a subsidiary drainage plat or studies separate from, but of the
same scale and size as the subdivision plat, and shall be prepared in such a
manner as will permit the topographical study or studies to be used as overlays
to the subdivision plat.
   (C)   Certification. Neither the Planning Commission, the Plat Officer, or
the Board of Trustees shall approve a tentative plat unless the topographical
and profile studies to be submitted with the subdivision plat have on their
face the certification of a Registered Professional Engineer, and the owner of
the land or his or her duly authorized attorney, to the effect that to the best
of their knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will not be
changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or, that
if such surface water drainage will be changed, adequate provision has been
made for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or
drains, or basins, which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such
surface waters will not be deposited on the property of the adjoining land
owners in such concentrations as may cause damage to the adjoining property
because of the construction of the subdivision.
   (D)   Subsidiary drainage plat.
      (1)   The developer’s engineer shall prepare a subsidiary drainage plat,
and shall submit the subsidiary drainage plat to the Village Engineer for
approval. The subsidiary drainage plat shall be:
         (a)   Drawn or printed on paper 24 inches wide by 36 inches long at a
minimum scale of 100 feet to one inch;
         (b)   Accompanied by a transmittal letter describing all requested
variances;
         (c)   Signed and sealed by an Illinois Registered Professional
Engineer;
         (d)   Consistent with the subdivision plat and proposed construction
plans.
      (2)   Required content of the subsidiary drainage plat:
         (a)   Existing and proposed ground surface contours of the entire
subdivision, including detention areas and roadways;
         (b)   Top-of-curb elevations in front of each lot centered between
front yard property monuments. Where there will be no curb the top-of-the-
pavement elevations shall be indicated;
         (c)   Proposed first floor elevations or finished yard grade of each
house at the building setback yard. Generally, finished yard grades at building
setback lines shall be a minimum of 12 inches and a maximum of 36 inches above
the top of the street or curb. Should topography and/or parcel configurations
characteristics make this rule impractical, a greater degree of variance may be
permitted as authorized by the Village Engineer;
         (d)   Existing and proposed storm sewer system, including invert
elevations of pipes, inlets and outlets;
         (e)   Arrows to indicate direction of ground surface water flows;
         (f)   Drainage easements;
         (g)   Proposed and existing roadway locations;
         (h)   Elevation views and detailed drawings as necessary to clearly
show the proposed subdivision surface and subsurface draining system;
         (i)   Title block indicating subdivision name, date, revisions and
legend; and
         (j)   An indication of total detention volume required and total
detention volume provided, as well as locations and elevation of low-flow
channels, outlet structures, and other detention facilities appurtenances.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the developer and/or builder of each
lot to assure that the grades and drainage of each lot is in compliance with
the approved subsidiary drainage plat.
      (4)   Each lot owner shall be responsible for maintaining the integrity
of the individual lot drainage pursuant to the approved subsidiary drainage
plat after construction and shall comply with the drainage plat when
constructing accessory structures, fences or landscaping.
      (5)   A final plat cannot be recorded until all requirements of this
section have been met. Once the subsidiary drainage plat is approved by the
village, the final plat will be signed and released for recording. The
developer shall also record the subsidiary drainage plat as an attachment to
the final plat. The developer shall also provide the village with a CD-ROM of
the subsidiary drainage plat in Auto-Cad format.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.066 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The village declares that the purpose of this section is to
safeguard persons, protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and
promote the public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design,
construction, use and maintenance of any development or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth on
land situated within the village jurisdiction. It is the intention of this
section that the transport of sediment via wind or rainwater runoff from sites
affected by land disturbing activities be limited, as closely as practicable,
to that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its undisturbed
state.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted to lessen the threat to public health, safety, or welfare
of land disturbing activities through protection of soil erosion and sediment
control sought by the enactment of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. Any agency with regulatory powers.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the permitting authority for the
construction, erection, or alteration of a structure or building.
      CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION. Formally attesting that the specific
inspections and tests where required have been performed, and that such tests
comply with the applicable requirements of this section.
      CLEARING. Any activity that removes vegetative ground cover.
      DISTRICT. The Winnebago County Soil and Water Conservation District.
      ENGINEER. The person(s) designated by the village to review, approve, or
enforce erosion and sediment control plans or stormwater pollution prevention
plans.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
      EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface
prior to excavation or filling.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a
new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FINAL GRADE. The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface
after the grading work is completed in accordance with the site development
plan.
      GRADING. Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
      HYDRIC SOIL. A soil having a seasonal high water table at or near the
surface of the soil most of the year.
      HYDROPHYTE. A plant growing in water or in soil too saturated with water
for most plants to survive.
      INSPECTOR. The person designated to review, approve, or enforce erosion
and sediment control plans or stormwater pollution prevention plans.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The existing runoff pattern of water on the ground
surface prior to construction.
      PARCEL. All contiguous land held in one ownership.
      PERMITTING AUTHORITY. The Village of Rockton.
      PERSON. Individuals, corporations, LLCs, associations, clubs, societies,
firms, partnerships and all bodies politic.
      REMOVAL. Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction,
or killing by spraying.
      RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation or irrigation on an area that does
not infiltrate into the soils, but instead flows off the surface of the land.
      SEDIMENT/SEDIMENTATION. Transported and deposited soil particles or
aggregates, usually by wind or water.
      SITE. A lot or parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where
construction activity is performed.
      STORMWATER CONVEYANCE AND STORAGE SYSTEM. Any river, stream, creek,
brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or artificial drainage way, lake,
pond, wetland, roadway drainage, storm sewer, and the like in or into which
surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
      STRIPPING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover
including tree removal, clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
      VACANT. Land on which there are no structures or only structures which
are secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
      WASTE. An unwanted byproduct of the developing/building process including
construction-generated litter.
      WETLAND. According to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, means lands
transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where the water table is
usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow water. For
purposes of this classification, WETLANDS must have one or more of the
following three attributes: (1) at least periodically, the land supports
predominantly hydrophytes; (2) the substrate is predominantly undrained hydric
soil; and (3) the substrate is nonsoil and is saturated with water or covered
by shallow water at some time during the growing season of the year.
   (C)   Applicability. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair, or
maintain any grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of any terms of this section. This requirement will
pertain to the following activities:
      (1)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill, offsite borrow areas, or any combination thereof) that will
affect an area greater than or equal to one acre;
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity that may discharge soil and erosion
into any stormwater conveyance system;
      (3)   The village reserves the right to require any non-agricultural,
construction development activity, regardless of disturbed area or type of
activity, to comply with this section if it is determined to be causing or
contributing to existing or potential new erosion of soil or otherwise
impacting the performance of an existing stormwater conveyance system.
   (D)   General principles. It is the objective of this section to control
soil erosion and sedimentation caused by development activities, including
clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, and filling of land, in the village.
Measures taken to control soil erosion and offsite sediment runoff should be
adequate to assure that sediment is not transported from the site by wind
erosion or a storm event of ten-year frequency or less. The following
principles shall apply to all development activities within the village and to
the preparation of the submissions to the village required under this section.
      (1)   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the
site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes
where high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible,
and existing contours should be followed as closely as possible.
      (2)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to existing watercourses, lakes, ponds,
and wetlands should be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings
of watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization
measures.
      (3)   Special precautions should be taken to prevent damages that occur
due to any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream,
lake, pond, or wetland. Preventative measures must be commensurate with the
sensitivity of these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
      (4)   The smallest practical area of disturbance should be exposed for
the shortest practical time during development.
      (5)   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any
other appropriated sediment or runoff control measures should be installed
prior to site clearing and grading and maintained to control and remove
sediment from run-off waters from land undergoing development.
      (6)   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should
be based on site limitations, project duration, and other factors to provide
the necessary site protection during the construction development activity.
      (7)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices,
aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance shall be considered.
      (8)   Permanent vegetation and runoff control structures shall be
installed and functional as soon as practical during development.
      (9)   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall
be properly disposed of and should be prevented from being carried off the site
by either wind, water, or artificial means.
      (10)   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   (E)   Erosion and sediment control plan.
      (1)   In general. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person
shall commence or perform any clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, or
filling of land without having first obtained approval of an erosion and
sediment control plan (“plan”) as set forth below.
      (2)   General plan requirements.
         (a)   The owners of the property or his or her authorized designee
shall prepare and submit, or shall cause the preparation and submittal of, a
plan to the Village Engineer at least 60 calendar days before commencement of
the proposed land disturbing activities. These submissions shall be prepared in
accordance with the requirements of this section and the standards and
requirements contained in the NPDES Permit No. ILR10 prepared by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and the Illinois Urban Manual prepared by the
Natural Resources Conservation Service and adopted by the Winnebago County Soil
and Water Conservation District, which standards and requirements are hereby
incorporated into this section by reference. General guidance can be found in
the Illinois Urban Manual, under the section “Storm Water Management For
Construction Activities, Developing Pollution Prevention Plans and Best
Management Practices.”
         (b)   The management practices, controls, and other provisions
contained in the plan must be at least as protective as the requirements
contained in the Illinois Urban Manual-A Technical Manual for Urban Ecosystem
Protection Enhancement, 2002, prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources Conservation Service.
         (c)   If the applicant is required to comply with the requirements of
a Phase II, NPDES permit, the applicant shall submit a copy of the Notice of
Intent (NOI), a copy of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources
Consultation Agency Action Report, and the approved stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) to the Village Engineer at least 30 calendar days
before the planned commencement of construction will be accepted in lieu of an
erosion and sediment control plan.
      (3)   Other plan requirements. Each plan shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the owner
or developer of the site and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant’s principle contact at such firm. The
owner must sign a copy of the certification statement. The certification must
be included in the plan:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gathered and evaluated the information submitted. Based on
my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons
directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am
aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of fine and imprisonment of knowing violations.”
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the general contractor
(s) that have been identified at the time of the submittal. Identify the
contractor(s) or subcontractor(s) implementing each measure of the plan. All
contractor(s) and subcontractor(s) identified in the plan must sign a copy of
the certification statement. All certifications must be included in the plan
except for owners acting as contractor(s):
“I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and conditions of
the general National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit No.
ILR10 and the Village of Rockton Code § 151.066, Erosion and Sediment Control
that authorizes the stormwater discharges associated with the construction
activities and site identified as part of this certification.”
         (c)   A vicinity map in sufficient detail to enable easy location in
the field of the site for which the permit is sought, and including the
boundary line and approximate acreage of the site, existing zoning, and a
legend and scale;
         (d)   A development plan of the site showing:
            1.    Existing topography of the site and adjacent land within
approximately 100 feet of the boundaries, drawn at no greater than two-foot
contour intervals and clearly portraying the conformation and drainage pattern
of the area;
            2.    The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities,
streams, lakes, floodplains, wetlands and depressions, drainage facilities,
vegetative cover, paved areas, and other significant natural or man-made
features on the site and adjacent land within 100 feet of the boundary;
            3.   A general description of the predominant soil types on the
site, their location, and their limitations for the proposed use;
            4.    Proposed use of the site, including present development and
planned utilization; areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation, and
filling; finished grades, and street profiles; provisions of storm drainage,
including storm sewers, swales, detention basins and any other measures to
control the rate of runoff, with a drainage area map, indications of flow
directions and computations; kinds and locations of utilities; and areas and
acreages proposed to be paved, covered, sodded or seeded, vegetatively
stabilized, or left undisturbed.
         (e)   Erosion and sediment controls showing all measures necessary to
meet the objectives of this section throughout all phases of construction and
permanently after completion of development of the site, including:
            1.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures and design specifics of sediment basins and traps,
including outlet details;
            2.   Plans ensuring existing vegetation is preserved where
attainable and disturbed portions of the site are stabilized. Stabilization
practices may include, but not be limited to: temporary seeding, vegetative
buffer strips, protection of trees, preservation of mature vegetation, and
other appropriate measures. Location and description of all soil stabilization
and erosion control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of
sod, method of seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of
lime and fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both
temporary and permanent vegetative control measures, and types of non-
vegetative stabilization measures;
            3.   Location and description of all runoff control measures,
including diversions, waterways, and outlets;
            4.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment offsite, including construction entrance details, as appropriate;
            5.   Description of dust and traffic control measures;
            6.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization
methods;
            7.   Description of off-site fill or borrow volumes, locations, and
methods of stabilization;
            8.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
         (f)   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and landscaping. Phasing should identify
the expected date on which clearing will begin and the estimated duration of
exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of installation of temporary
sediment control measures (including perimeter controls), clearing and grading,
installation of temporary soil stabilization measures, installation of storm
drainage, paving streets and parking areas, final grading and the establishment
of permanent vegetative cover, and the removal of temporary measures. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the village of any significant
changes that occur in the site development schedule after the initial erosion
and sediment control plan has been approved;
         (g)   A copy of the completed Notice of Intent (NOI) required by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency;
         (h)   A copy of the completed Illinois Department of Natural Resources
Consultation Agency Action Report.
      (4)   Stabilization measures. Stabilization measures will be initiated as
soon as practicable in portions of the site where construction activities have
temporarily or permanently ceased, but in no case more than 14 days after the
construction activity in that portion of the site has temporarily or
permanently ceased.
         (a)   Where the initiation of stabilization measures by the 14th day
after construction activity temporary or permanently snow cover precludes ease,
stabilization measures shall be initiated as soon as practicable.
         (b)   Where construction activity will resume on a portion of the site
within 21 days from when activity ceased, (i.e. the total time period that
construction activity is temporarily ceased is less than 21 days) then
stabilization measures do not have to be initiated on that portion of the site
by the 14th day after construction activity temporarily ceased.
   (F)   Exceptions. Erosion and sediment control plans shall not be required
for submittal for any of the following provided that the person responsible for
any such development shall implement necessary soil erosion and sediment
control measures to satisfy the principles set forth in this section:
      (1)   Excavation below final grade for the basement and footings of a
single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of one
acre for which the county has issued a building permit;
      (2)   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the
Winnebago County Soil and Water Conservation District, and including the
construction of agricultural structures;
      (3)   Installation, renovation, or replacement of a septic system to
serve an existing dwelling or structure.
   (G)   Fees. The cost of reviewing the erosion and sediment control plan and
inspection of the proposed measures during construction will be the
responsibility of the owner or developer of subject property. The costs are set
forth in § 151.030, whereby the owner or developer is required to pay the
village a sum not to exceed 4% of the approved construction estimate to cover
the cost of field inspections. The cost of reviewing the erosion and sediment
control plan and inspection of the proposed measures during construction will
be included in this required fee. The cost of the construction of the erosion
and sediment control measures will be included in the calculation of project
construction costs by which the inspection fee is based.
   (H)   Review and approval.
      (1)   Each erosion and sediment control plan shall be reviewed and acted
upon according to the following procedures:
      (2)   The Village Engineer will review each plan and determine its
conformance with the provisions of this section. Within 15 days after receiving
the plan, the designee shall in writing:
         (a)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan if it is found to
be in conformance with the provisions of this section;
         (b)   Approve the erosion and sediment control plan subject to such
reasonable conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the
objectives of this section; or
         (c)   Disapprove the erosion and sediment control plan, indicating the
deficiencies and the procedure for submitting a revised erosion and sediment
control plan.
   (I)   Conditions for approval. Approval shall not be issued for an intended
development site unless:
      (1)   The development, including but not limited to subdivisions and
planned unit development, has been approved by the village where applicable; or
      (2)   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the village for the area in which
the site is situated; and
      (3)   All relevant federal and state permits (i.e., for floodplains and
wetlands) have been received for the portion of the site subject to soil
disturbance.
   (J)   Appeals. The applicant, or any person or agency that received notice
of the filing of the erosion and sediment control plan or the stormwater
pollution prevention plan may appeal the decision of the Village Engineer. Upon
receipt of an appeal, the Board of Trustees shall schedule and hold a public
hearing, after giving 15 days’ notice thereof. The Board of Trustees shall
render a decision within 15 days after the hearing. Factors to be considered on
review shall include, but need not be limited to, the effects of the proposed
development activities on the surface water flow to tributary and downstream
lands, any comprehensive watershed management plans, or the use of any
retention facilities; possible saturation of fill and unsupported cuts by
water, both natural and domestic; runoff surface waters that produce erosion
and silting of drainage ways; nature and type of soil or rock, which when
disturbed by the proposed development activities may create earth movement and
produce slopes that cannot be landscaped; and excessive and unnecessary
scarring of the natural landscape through grading or removal or vegetation.
   (K)   Site design requirements. The following on-site sediment control
measures shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing,
grading, stripping, excavation, or fill activities on the site.
      (1)   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided,
where possible. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following
requirements shall be met:
         (a)   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of non-erosive material, such as
riprap or gravel.
         (b)   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be
kept to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be
restabilized within 48 hours after channel disturbance is completed,
interrupted, or stopped.
         (c)   Whenever channel relocation is necessary, the new channel shall
be constructed in the dry and fully stabilized before flow is diverted.
      (2)   Sediment traps or anchored filter barriers meeting accepted design
standards and specifications outlined in the Illinois Urban Manual shall
protect storm sewer inlets and culverts.
      (3)   Soil storage piles containing more than ten cubic yards of material
shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than 25 feet to a
roadway or drainage channel. Filter barriers, including straw bales, filter
fence, or equivalent, shall be installed immediately on the downslope side of
the piles.
      (4)   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent.
      (5)   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads,
access drives, and parking areas a minimum of 50 feet long and 12 feet wide to
prevent sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any
sediment reaching a public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or
street cleaning (not flushing) before the end of each workday and transported
to a controlled sediment disposal area.
      (6)   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance of
their intended function.
      (7)   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures shall be
disposed of within 30 days after final site stabilization is achieved with
permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped sediment and other disturbed
soils resulting from the disposition of temporary measures should be
permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and sedimentation.
   (L)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Village Engineer shall make inspections as hereinafter required
and shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the
applicant wherein the work fails to comply with the erosion and sedimentation
control plans as approved. In order to obtain inspections and to ensure
compliance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan and this
section, the applicant shall notify the Village Engineer within two working
days of the completion of the construction stages specified below:
         (a)   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding
with any other earth disturbance or grading;
         (b)   After stripping and clearing;
         (c)   After seeding and landscaping deadlines;
         (d)   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
      (2)   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done
in phases or areas, the applicant shall give notice and request inspection at
the completion of each of the above work states in each phase or area.
      (3)   The village shall also reserve the right to inspect disturbed areas
of the construction site that have not been finally stabilized, structural
control measures, and locations where vehicles enter or exit the site at least
once every seven calendar days and within 24 hours of the end of a storm that
is 0.5 inches or greater or equivalent snowfall.
   (M)   Retention of plans.
      (1)   The applicant shall retain copies of plans and all reports for a
period of at least three years from the date the site is finally stabilized.
The applicant shall also retain a copy of the plan at the construction site
from the date of project initiation to the date of final stabilization.
      (2)   The village shall retain plans, specifications, and reports for all
site developments in original form.
   (N)   Special precautions.
      (1)   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the Village
Engineer determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing building permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the Village
Engineer may require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done, that such
reasonable special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable to avoid
the likelihood of such peril. “Special precautions” may include, but shall not
be limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage
facilities, berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of plant
materials for erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils
engineer and/or engineering geologist which may be made requirements for
further work.
      (2)   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading
on any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the applicant
may be required to install temporary structures or take such other measures to
protect adjoining property or the public safety.
      (3)   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan shall be
submitted to the village and shall be processed and approved or disapproved in
the same manner as the original plans. The Village Engineer may authorize field
modifications of a minor nature by written authorization to the applicant.
   (O)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Stop-work order. In the event any person holding an approved
erosion and sediment control plan pursuant to this section violates the terms
of the approval, or carries on site development in such a manner as to
materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety of persons residing
or working in the neighborhood of the development site or so as to be
materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood, the village may suspend or revoke approved
construction activity including, but not limited to: any and all building
permits, grading activity, road construction, or other construction related
activities until such time the approved erosion and sediment control plan is
satisfactorily implemented and/or maintained.
      (2)   Enforcement of violations of an approved plan shall be by a written
stop-work order issued by the village and delivered to the permittee or his or
her agent or the person performing the work. The stop-work order shall be
effective immediately, shall state the specific violation cited, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed. Failure to follow an
approved erosion and sediment control plan may be just cause to permanently
suspend or revoke authorized construction activity or building permit.
   (P)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section will be
fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day during which any violation
continues shall constitute an additional offense.
      (2)   Non-compliance of this section may constitute a violation of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act and Clean Water Act and is grounds for
enforcement action, at which strict criminal, civil, and administrative
penalties may be issued. Penalties are described in the NPDES-Construction Site
Activities applications instructions and it is the duty of the petitioner to
comply.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.067 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Description. The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is
established to promote conserve environmental features and improve the
relationship between the design, and use of innovative mixes of land uses
within the village. To this intent, this district allows variation in the
structures, lots, and open spaces in developments conceived and implemented as
cohesive, unified projects.
   (B)   Subdivision to accommodate a Planned Unit Development.
      (1)   A development that is required to comply with this chapter and that
is obtaining zoning approval for a planned unit development (PUD) may receive
village subdivision approval as provided in this division (B) rather than
pursuant to procedures found elsewhere in this chapter.
      (2)   An approved overall development plan (ODP) for a PUD project
substitutes for a concept plan normally required under §
151.041, and a tentative plat that would otherwise be required under §
151.046.
      (3)   A final plat shall be required if the project involves creation of
a subdivision as defined in this chapter. The final plat shall be reviewed for
compliance with the approved overall development plan, the approved specific
implementation plan, and the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Approval of the specific implementation plan of a PUD project shall
authorize and direct the granting of exceptions and waivers to otherwise
applicable standards in this chapter to allow the final plat to implement the
approved specific implementation plan.
      Below is an example of one design option for subdivisions in a planned
unit development project:
   Figure 3: Conventional Subdivision (left) as Compared to Possible PUD Option
(right)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4634cc7e5efc336e2ebd9611e0084dedba64d1d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.png]
 
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.068 SUBDIVISIONS TO ACCOMMODATE CONSERVATION NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN (CND).
   (A)   Purposes. In addition to the purposes found in §
151.002, this section is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To guide the detailed analysis of the development parcel so as to
locate and coordinate appropriate areas, as recommended by the Village of
Rockton Comprehensive Plan, for development and conservation;
      (2)   To express a cultural and historic heritage of agricultural and
rural character through the permanent preservation of open space and natural
resources within and around the village;
      (3)   To provide commonly-owned open space areas for passive and/or
active recreational use by residents of the development and, where specified,
the larger community;
      (4)   To provide buffering between residential development and non-
residential uses;
      (5)   To protect and restore environmentally sensitive areas and
biological diversity, minimize disturbance to existing vegetation, and maintain
environmental corridors;
      (6)   To preserve significant archaeological sites, historic buildings
and their settings;
      (7)   To conserve those areas containing unique and sensitive natural
features such as native and natural woodlands and grasslands, steep slopes,
streams, floodplains, and wetlands, by protecting those areas from development;
      (8)   To provide greater design flexibility and efficiency in the
provision of services and infrastructure, including the opportunity to reduce
the length of roads, utility runs, and the amount of paving required for
residential development;
      (9)   To reduce erosion and sedimentation by the retention of existing
vegetation and the minimization of development on steep slopes;
      (10)   To provide for a diversity of lot sizes, building densities, and
housing choices to accommodate a variety of age and income groups and
households with different housing demands, so that the community’s population
diversity may be maintained;
      (11)   To implement municipal policies to conserve a variety of
irreplaceable and environmentally sensitive resource lands for the benefit of
present and future residents;
      (12)   To protect productive agricultural soils in the region for
continued or future agricultural use by minimizing urban sprawl and promoting
compact, environmentally sensitive neighborhood and community design;
      (13)   To create neighborhoods with direct visual access to open land,
with amenities in the form of neighborhood open space, and with a strong
neighborhood identity;
      (14)   To provide multiple options for landowners in order to minimize
impacts on environmental resources (sensitive lands such as wetlands,
floodplain, and steep slopes) and disturbance of natural or cultural features
(such as mature woodlands, hedgerows and tree lines, critical wildlife
habitats, and culturally or historically significant buildings);
      (15)   To provide standards reflecting the varying circumstances and
interests of individual landowners and the individual characteristics of their
properties; and
      (16)   To conserve scenic views and elements of the village’s small-town
character and minimize perceived density, by using existing natural landforms,
topography, and features to minimize views of new development from existing
roads, where possible.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall be observed and applied,
except when the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present
tense shall include the future tense. Words used in the singular form shall
include the plural form. Words used in the plural form shall include the
singular. The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land within a conservation neighborhood
design that has been designated, dedicated, reserved, or restricted in
perpetuity from further development and is set aside for the use and enjoyment
by residents of the development. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall not be part of
individual residential lots. It shall be substantially tree of structures, but
may contain historic structures and archaeological sites including Indian
mounds, and/or such recreational facilities for residents as are indicated on
an approved development plan.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. The grant of a property right or interest from the
property owner to a unit of government or nonprofit conservation organization
stipulating that the described land shall remain in its natural, scenic, open
or wooded state, precluding future or additional development.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS. Includes all of the following:
         (a)   All areas mapped as floodplain by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), Illinois Department of Natural Resources, or other
public or private entity;
         (b)   All wetlands as defined in 20 ILCS 830, Interagency Wetland
Policy Act of 1989, including a 75-foot buffer;
         (c)   All areas having slopes greater than 12% for a contiguous area
of 5,000 square feet or more;
         (d)   All areas within a distance of 75 feet of the ordinary high-
water mark of navigable streams and lakes as identified by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency;
         (e)   Areas that are documented to provide habitat for rare,
threatened or endangered species;
         (f)   Burial sites and Indian mounds; or
         (g)   Existing drainage ways that contain running water during spring
runoff and/or during storm events, including a 25-foot buffer, which may
include features such as natural or man-made drainage swales, springs and
brooks.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A community association incorporated or not
incorporated, combining individual home ownership with shared use or ownership
of common property or facilities.
   (C)   Applicability and compliance. The provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all divisions of land resulting in three or more new building parcels
in the Village of Rockton and its extraterritorial area, provided that at least
two of the following conditions are true:
      (1)   The subdivider, in compliance with the provisions found in §§
151.041 through
151.045, proposes a concept to subdivide and develop the land in accordance
with the principles of “Conservation Neighborhood Design” as defined in the
Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Rockton, adopted January 15, 2001.
      (2)   Through the course of the optional review procedures outlined in §§
151.043 and
151.045(B), the Village Planning Commission recommends and the Village Board
determines, by a simple majority of the entire membership of the Board, that
the land proposed for subdivision and development should be done so in
accordance with the principles of “Conservation Neighborhood Design” as defined
in the Comprehensive Plan of the Village of Rockton, adopted January 15, 2001.
      (3)   (a)   The division of land is proposed for lands identified as
“Planned Neighborhood” in Map 5 of the Comprehensive Plan of the Village of
Rockton, as adopted January 15, 2001.
         (b)   The matrix below outlines when CND shall be applied, according
to the provision above:
 
Subdivider proposes CND subdivision             Yes Yes Yes Yes No No  No  No
Village Board determines CND should be utilized No  Yes No  Yes No Yes No  Yes
Comprehensive Plan map 5 identifies area as     No  No  Yes Yes No Yes Yes No
“Planned Neighborhood”
CND Option pursued, use CND Ordinance to        No  Yes Yes Yes No Yes No  No
regulate
 
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Ownership of development site. The tract of land to be subdivided
may be held in single and separate ownership or in multiple ownership. If held
in multiple ownership, however, the site shall be developed according to a
single plan with common authority and common responsibility.
      (2)   Conservation neighborhood design subdivisions: concept/sketch plan
phase. Upon determination, as outlined in division (C) above, that the
conservation neighborhood design concept is appropriate for the proposed
development, the applicant shall describe and illustrate how the four-step
design process described below was used in determining the layout of the
proposed subdivision of land, and present this information for Plan Commission
review and comment in accordance with §
151.045(B).
         (a)   Step 1: Delineation of Open Space & Greenway Lands
         (b)   Step 2: Location of House Sites
         (c)   Step 3: Alignment of Streets and Trails
         (d)   Step 4: Drawing in the Lot Lines
   (E)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Following Village Plan Commission review and comment on a concept
plan as described in division (C)(2) above, all applications for subdivisions
which fall under this section shall meet the plat submission set forth in this
chapter.
      (2)   Community association document(s).
         (a)   Shall be provided for all subdivision and land development
applications that propose lands or facilities to be used or owned in common by
all the residents of that subdivision or land development and not dedicated to
the municipality or deeded to another third party.
         (b)   Elements of documents shall include but not necessarily be
limited to:
            1.   Description of all lands and facilities owned by the
association, including map;
            2.   Statements of powers, duties, and responsibilities of the
association, including services to be provided;
            3.   Declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions;
            4.   Statements prescribing the association’s decision-making
process;
            5.   Statements requiring each owner of property in subdivision to
become a member of association;
            6.   Statements setting cross covenants or contractual terms
binding each owner to all other owners for mutual benefit and enforcement;
            7.   Requirements for all property owners to provide a pro rata
share of the cost of operation of association;
            8.   Process of collection and enforcement to obtain funds from
owners who fail to comply;
            9.   Process for transition of control of association from
developer to unit owners;
            10.   Statements describing how facilities and lands of association
will be insured, including limit of liability;
            11.   Provisions for the dissolution of the association, in the
event that the association should become unviable.
   (F)   Requirements for design and improvements.
      (1)   No land shall be developed for any proposed use other than common
open space if identified as being environmentally sensitive, as defined in
division (B)(3) above.
      (2)   Number of dwelling units. The applicant shall choose one of the
following methods for calculating the base number of dwelling units that may be
constructed on the property:
         (a)   Formula Approach: Under the formula approach, the base number of
dwelling units is determined by using the following formula:
                [(Net Area x (Factor)]
Base # Dwelling Units =      [(Conventional Minimum Lot Size) x (# Dwelling
Units/Lot)]
            Where:
            1.   “# Dwelling Units/Lot” is the number maximum number of units
allowed per lot under the village’s Zoning Code (i.e,, “1” in single-family (R-
l) districts, “2” in two-family (R-2) districts, and as consistent with
allowable units/densities for multiple-family (R-M) districts).
            2.   “Net Area” is the total area of the parcel (in square feet)
minus the “restricted area” on the parcel (in square feet).
            3.   “Restricted Area” is any area that is restricted from
development by covenant, easement, or some other legally binding restriction.
            4.   “Conventional Minimum Lot Size” is the “Minimum Site Area”
required in the underlying or proposed zoning district, as ordained by Table 1
in the Appendix of Chapter 152: Zoning Code of the Village of Rockton’s Code of
Ordinances.
            5.   “Factor” is the number (expressed as a decimal) determined
according to the following chart:
 
Percentage of Entire Parcel that is “EnvironmentallFactor
Sensitive”
15%                                                  0.80
Between 15% and 20%                                  0.75
Between 20% and 25%                                  0.70
Between 25% and 35%                                  0.60
35% or more                                          Use yield approach
 
         (b)   Yield Plan Approach: The subdivider shall submit a sketch
showing the maximum number of dwelling units that would be permitted under
Chapter 152, the Zoning Code, consistent with the minimum lot size, lot widths,
setbacks, and other provisions of Chapter 152. Land that is undevelopable
because of other laws and ordinances that prohibit development (e.g.
floodplains, wetlands, and drainage ways) shall be excluded from the
development yield analysis, and anticipated right-of-way and storm water
management needs shall be estimated and excluded from the development yield
analysis, as well.
         (c)   Exceptions:
            1.   If more than 35% of the total parcel acreage consists of any
combination of the elements listed as environmentally sensitive under division
(B)(3) above, then the applicant shall use the yield plan approach to determine
the allowable number of dwelling units.
            2.    The Planning Commission may recommend and the Village Board
may require the use of the yield plan for determining the permitted number of
dwelling units if it finds, upon review of the concept, that specific site
characteristics (such as soil types, wetland and slope arrangement) support
fewer than 75% of the number of dwelling units permitted by using the formula
approach.
         (d)   Incentives: Additional dwelling units and/or lots, not to exceed
20% over and above the base number of dwelling units permitted, may be awarded
at the recommendation of the Village Planning Commission and approval by the
Village Board for any of the following:
            1.   Developments that provide enhanced conservation through
designation of additional common open space (greater than 50% of the buildable
area of the parcel) shall be eligible for a 5% increase, with approval by
majority vote of the full Village Board, in the number of dwelling units
allowed for each additional 10% of the parcel designated as open space, as
detailed in the table below:
 
Designated Common Open Space (Percentage Incentive (Increase in Allowable
of Buildable Parcel Area)                Dwelling Units)
Less than or equal to 50%                No Incentive
More than 50% and up to 60%              Up to 5% Increase
More than 60% and up to 70%              Up to 10% Increase
More than 70%                            Up to 15% Increase
 
            2.   Developments that grant public access, i.e., not limited to
residents of the subdivision, to the designated open space shall be eligible
for up to a 10% increase, with approval by majority vote of the full Village
Board, in the number of dwelling units allowed.
            3.   Development that provide for a permanent conservation easement
and that include a stewardship fund payment, acceptable to the Planning
Commission and held by the village, a legally recognized conservation
organization, or land trust, shall be eligible for up to a 10% increase, with
approval by majority vote of the full Village Board, in the number of dwelling
units allowed.
      (3)   Dimensional and design standards.
         (a)   Public street design standards: Generally, the standards in this
section are intended to work in concert with those in §
151.061 to guide the subdivision and development of lands in Rockton. Where
found to be inconsistent with the standards found in §
151.061(E), the standards included in this division (F)(3)(a) shall prevail,
and shall apply to the design of all public streets in a proposed conservation
neighborhood design:
            1.   Except in cases where extreme topographic or environmental
conditions preclude connection, streets in a conservation neighborhood design
shall be interconnected, and private roads, cul-de-sac and deadend streets
shall be avoided. As an alternative to cul-de-sac, innovative designs such as
one-way loop streets (“closes”) with landscaped medians are encouraged.
            2.    All public streets shall be finished with a two-foot concrete
curb and gutter on each side, with the following exceptions:
               A.   Alleys which provide service to garages and for refuse
collection that are approved by the Planning Commission and the Village Board
of Trustees.
               B.   One-way streets that are “single-loaded” (i.e., houses on
only one side of the street) with houses facing common open space across the
street, if determined by the Planning Commission that the elimination of curb
and gutter on one or both sides of the street provides the greatest benefit to
the function, accessibility, and/or natural character of the open space.
            3.   Parallel on-street parking lanes shall be provided on one or
both sides of residential streets in a conservation neighborhood design. Such
parking lanes shall be prohibited within 35 feet of any intersection of two or
more streets.
            4.   The right-of-way width for each road in a conservation
neighborhood design shall be wide enough to meet the Village Engineer’s
approval for all public services, including roadway drainage, sidewalks,
trails, walkways, utilities, and snow storage. If the Village Engineer finds
that right-of-way widths cannot safely or feasibly accommodate all necessary
public utilities, public utility easements may be required beyond such rights-
of-way. The minimum right-of-way shall be provided in accordance with the table
below:
 
Right-of-Way             Local/Neighborhood Collector Arterial
One-way alley or roadway 28 feet            40 feet   N/A
Two-way roadway          50 feet            60 feet   Use existing standards
 
            5.   To best accommodate the safety and comfort of pedestrians,
bicyclists, and motor vehicles while at the same time minimizing the impact on
the village’s environmental and financial resources, pavement widths (measured
face-of-curb to face-of-curb) for roads in a conservation neighborhood design
shall equal the following, unless a narrower pavement width is approved by the
Plan Commission:
 
Pavement Width           Local/Neighborhood Collector Arterial
                         14 feet (service
One-way service alley    vehicles only)     N/A       N/A
(no parking)             20 feet (w/garage
                         access)
One-way roadway (no      14 feet            16 feet   N/A
parking)
One-way roadway (parking 18 feet            20 feet   N/A
on one side)
Two-way roadway (no      18 feet            20 feet   Use existing standards
parking)
Two-way roadway (parking 24 feet            26 feet   Use existing standards
on one side)
Two-way roadway (parking 28 feet            30 feet   Use existing standards
on both sides)
 
            6.   Minimum curb radius in a conservation neighborhood design
shall be 15 feet for local/neighborhood streets and 20 feet for collector
streets.
            7.   For all two-way roadways in a conservation neighborhood
design, sidewalks shall be provided in accordance with §
151.061(H). One-way roadways in a conservation neighborhood design shall meet
all standards in §
151.061(H) except in the case of “single-loaded: streets, in which case
sidewalks can be limited to only the one side of the street that is developed
with dwelling units with Plan Commission approval. Sidewalks should be located
as far as practical from traffic lanes and no more than one foot inside the
edge of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Lots: House lots shall not include environmentally sensitive
areas as identified in division (B)(3) of this section, and their layout shall
respect secondary conservation areas as described in division (B)(5) above.
         (c)   Building footprints: Each proposed lot in a conservation
neighborhood design shall include a proposed “building footprint,” which shall
identify an approximate outline of all exterior walls of primary and accessory
structures proposed for that lot. Building footprints shall be situated on lots
to comply with the following standards, which, coupled with the standards for
lot dimensions and intensity as found in the proposed zoning ordinance
amendments, minimize the disturbance and deterioration of the village’s
natural, cultural, and social resources:
            1.   Where residential structures are proposed on both sides of a
planned public street in a conservation neighborhood design subdivision, the
front-most exterior (street side) wall effacing structures shall maintain a
maximum separation distance of 110 feet.
            2.   Where residential structures are proposed on both sides of a
planned public street in a conservation neighborhood design subdivision, the
front-most exterior (street side) wall of facing structures shall maintain an
average separation distance of at least 100 feet.
            3.   Where a proposed street in a conservation neighborhood design
subdivision is planned to be “single-loaded” (i.e., houses on only one side of
the street) with houses facing common open space across the street, the front-
most exterior (street side) wall of proposed residential structures shall
maintain a maximum separation distance of 80 feet from the street-side property
line of the common open space.
            4.   Where a proposed street in a conservation neighborhood design
subdivision is planned to be “single-loaded” (i.e., houses on only one side of
the street) with houses facing common open space across the street, the front-
most exterior (street side) wall of proposed residential structures shall
maintain an average separation distance of at least 70 feet from the street-
side property line of the common open space.
            5.   The building footprint of any primary structures proposed on
adjacent lots that are not separated by a public street (i.e., “next door” to
one another) shall maintain a minimum separation distance of 18 feet.
(Ord. 2010-05, passed 2-16-10)
§ 151.069 RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Definition. A RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY is any paved hard-surfaced, the use
of which is for the purpose of ingress or egress to a residence, including, but
not limited to, a carport, garage, accessory structure, parking area, or
loading and unloading station for vehicles, whether the driveway crosses the
village right-of-way or not.
   (B)   All residential driveways must comply with the following standards, in
addition to those set forth in the village subdivision code and code of
ordinances (the Village Board of Trustees reserves the right to grant variances
as necessary or appropriate):
      (1)   No residential driveway shall be within five feet of the side
property line.
      (2)   Only one driveway shall be permitted for each lot.
      (3)   All residential driveways shall be constructed directly from the
public road to the attached garage. If there is no attached garage, the
driveway shall be constructed to the primary detached garage as situated in the
front, side or rear yard.
      (4)   Residential driveway design standards.
         (a)   Residential driveways shall not exceed 24 feet in width at the
property line.
         (b)   Residential driveways shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete,
paver materials, or such other materials may be approved by the Village
Engineer; however, gravel or other loose-surface materials is prohibited.
         (c)   Driveway aprons or any portion of the driveway in the public
right-of-way shall have a minimum thickness of six-inch Portland cement
concrete on a two-inch compacted aggregate sub-base (CA-6 Graduation) or three-
inch bituminous surface on a ten-inch compacted aggregate sub-base (CA-
6 Graduation).
         (d)   Driveway aprons shall have a flare up to five feet on each side
of the apron from the beginning of the public right-of-way to the edge of
roadway, for a maximum apron width of 34 feet at the edge of roadway.
         (e)   Any sidewalks in the driveway must remain as constructed or
replaced as specified elsewhere in the village code of ordinances. If a
sidewalk is required but has not been constructed, the property owner shall
install such sidewalk as prescribed. The sidewalk shall meet village
requirements, extend through the driveway, and shall be a minimum of six inches
thick through the duration of the driveway.
         (f)   Any repair or replacement of driveway drainage culverts shall be
approved by the Public Works Department including but not limited to their
required size, materials, minimum cover, length and end treatment.
      (5)   Property owners wishing to initially install, expand or replace
their residential driveways shall first apply for a driveway permit with the
Zoning Administrator in order to verify compliance with the aforementioned
standards. Any property owner who is found in violation of this provision shall
immediately apply for a driveway permit, pay the increased application fee for
a driveway without a permit, and may be subject to fines per §
10.99.
(Ord. 2024-6, passed 4-16-24)
**** PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS ****
§ 151.070 DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. A tentative plat, condominium plat or final plat shall not be
approved within the village or its extraterritorial jurisdiction unless the
appropriate approving body determines that adequate public facilities and
public services are available to meet the needs of the proposed subdivision or
condominium plat.
   (B)   Submittal of requested data. With or following the submittal of any
tentative plat, condominium plat or final plat, the applicant shall furnish any
data requested by the Village Engineer who shall transmit this information to
appropriate agencies for review and shall act as coordinator for their reports
to the Planning Commission and the Board of Trustees on the adequacy of water,
sanitary and storm sewers, fire service, police, parks and open space,
recreation facilities, and transportation facilities. Failure to submit such
data as requested may be grounds for denial of the tentative plat, condominium
plat or final plat.
   (C)   Determination of adequacy. Public facilities and public services for a
proposed subdivision or condominium plat shall be found to be adequate by the
village when the following conditions exist:
      (1)   In cases where the proposed subdivision or condominium plat is
located within the village’s utility service area, main line interceptor sewer
service is presently available to the subdivision or condominium plat area, or
is designated by the appropriate sanitary district for extension and the
subdivision or condominium plat is proposed to connect with such sanitary sewer
service. The Planning Commission, Board of Trustees and Village Engineer shall
also consider whether the capacity of collector lines and of sewerage treatment
facilities is adequate.
      (2)   In cases where the proposed subdivision or condominium plat is
located within the village’s utility service area, public water service with
adequate capacity for the proposed subdivision or condominium plat will be
provided, or the water distribution system that is needed is under construction
or scheduled for construction. The Planning Commission, Board of Trustees and
Village Engineer shall also consider whether water line capacities, water
sources and storage facilities are adequate.
      (3)   The Village Engineer recommends to the Planning Commission and the
Village Board of Trustees that adequate facilities are available to ensure
proper stormwater management.
      (4)   The Village Police and Fire Departments verify that timely and
adequate service can be provided to the future residents and buildings.
      (5)   The proposed subdivision or condominium plat is accessible by
existing, publicly- maintained, all-weather roads that are adequate to
accommodate both existing traffic and new traffic to be generated by the
subdivision or condominium plat or necessary additional roads and road
improvements are budgeted for construction with public or private financing.
The Planning Commission and Village Board of Trustees shall consider
recommendations of other consenting agencies and jurisdictions, and such
factors as levels of service, average peak use, and any other information
presented.
   (D)   Conditional approval possible. Where the Planning Commission and the
Board of Trustees determine that one or more public facilities or services are
not adequate for the proposed subdivision or condominium plat, but that a
portion of the area could be served adequately, or that careful phasing of the
development could result in all public services being adequate, conditional
approval may include only such portions or may specify phasing of the
development.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.071 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
   At the time of submission of any tentative plat or tentative condominium
plat located within the corporate limits of the village, the subdivider or
condominium developer shall be required to enter into a contract with the
village agreeing to install all required public improvements. The following
shall also be required within or simultaneous to the execution of a development
agreement:
   (A)   The subdivider or condominium developer shall file with said contract,
subject to the approval of the Village Attorney, a bond, certificate of
deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, certified check or other security issued
by a bank chartered in the State of Illinois or in the state in which the
subdivider otherwise conducts business in an amount equal to 125% of the cost
of improvements required to serve the subdivision or condominium development,
as estimated by the developer’s engineer and approved by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   All required improvements shall be completed by the subdivider or
condominium developer or his or her contractors not later than 24 months from
the date of village approval of the engineering plans and specifications for
the subdivision or condominium plat.
   (C)   As a further guarantee that all obligations for work on improvements
are satisfied, the contractor and sub-contractors who are selected to construct
utilities and street improvements on dedicated street rights-of-way shall be
listed as qualified for such work by the Village Engineer and the Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   The contract shall also require the subdivider or condominium
developer to pay all outstanding assessments for public improvements previously
installed and all area charges for sanitary sewer and water mains, force mains,
pumping stations, and regional stormwater facilities previously installed by
the village.
   (E)   The contract shall also establish minimum insurance requirements for
the subdivider or condominium developer and its subcontractors.
   (F)   All required public improvements shall be constructed to village
standards.
   (G)   If the improvements are not completed or repairs are not made within
the specified time period, the Board of Trustees may use all or any portion of
the proceeds of the letter of credit or performance bond to complete or repair
same. However, the Board of Trustees may, upon proof of difficulty, extend the
bonding time.
   (H)   Upon completion of the required improvements guaranteed by the bond or
letter of credit, and to ensure that such improvements have been installed in
accordance with the approved final plat, a detailed “as built” set of
construction drawings of the subdivision, indicating location, dimensions,
construction materials, and other information required by the Village Engineer,
shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees by the developer of the
subdivision. “As built” construction drawings shall also be submitted on a CD-
ROM in Auto-Cad format for the village’s records.
   (I)   The subdivider shall protect, indemnify, hold and save harmless and
defend the village and its officers, officials, employees, volunteers and
agents against any and all claims, costs, causes, actions and expenses,
including but not limited to attorney’s fees incurred by reason of a lawsuit or
claim for compensation arising in favor of any person including the subdivider,
on account of personal injury or death, or damages to property occurring,
growing out of and incident to or resulting directly or indirectly from the
performance by the subdivider, the general contractor or any subcontractor,
whether such loss, damage, injury or liability is contributed to by the
negligence of the village or its officers, officials, employees, volunteers and
agents or by the premises themselves or any equipment thereon, whether latent
or patent, or from other causes, whatsoever, except that the subdivider shall
have no liability for damages or costs incident thereto caused by the sole
negligence of the village or its officers, officials, employees, volunteers and
agents.
   (J)   Governmental units to which the bond and/or letter of credit
provisions apply may file, in lieu of said contract or bond, a letter from
officers authorized to act in their behalf agreeing to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (K)   Where a subdivision is located in the path of urban development, as
indicated by the official plan for the development of the village, improvements
may be required of a size and capacity necessary to adequately serve adjacent
growth. When such “oversized” improvements are required, the village shall
reimburse the subdivider for any construction in excess of what is necessary to
serve only his or her subdivision. Maximum requirements for subdivision
improvements shall be determined by the Village Engineer and approved by the
Board of Trustees.
   (L)   Where a subdivision is located in the path of urban development, as
indicated by the comprehensive plan for the village, improvements may be
required of a size and capacity necessary to adequately serve adjacent growth.
When such “oversized” improvements are required, the village shall reimburse
the subdivider for any construction in excess of what is necessary to serve
only his or her subdivision. Maximum requirements for subdivision improvements
shall be determined by the Village Engineer and approved by the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.072 CONSTRUCTION DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The subdivider, at his or her own expense, shall provide
all improvements required by this chapter in the manner prescribed by this
section pursuant to the recording of any lots or the sale of any lots or
property within the platted subdivision, land division or condominium plat.
   (B)   Stormwater. Where public stormwater is available, the subdivider or
condominium developer shall install stormwater management facilities, which may
include curbs and gutters, catch basins and inlets, storm sewers, road ditches,
open channels and detention or retention facilities as may be required by the
Village Engineer, and as may be suggested by the topographic and surface water
drainage studies. All such facilities are to be of adequate, size, grade,
depth, and design as determined by the Village Engineer, or if no outlets are
within a reasonable distance, adequate provision including the procurement of
all necessary easements both downstream and on the plat for the disposal of
stormwater, subject to the specifications and inspection of the Village
Engineer. The cost of engineering and inspection by the Village Engineer will
be charged to the developer at a rate not to exceed 4% of the approved
construction estimate for each plat.
   (C)   Street grading and surfacing.  The subdivider shall furnish drawings
which indicate the existing and proposed grades of streets shown on the plat,
and shall grade or cause to be graded the full width of the right-of-way of the
streets proposed to be dedicated. The bed for the roadways in the street right-
of-way shall be graded to subgrade. The Village Engineer shall approve the
plans prior to the time the Planning Commission recommends approval of the
final plat. The Village Engineer shall determine and charge the subdivider a
fee to cover the costs of inspections all street grading and surfacing
installed.
   (D)   Street and sidewalk surfacing. The subdivider shall construct curbs
and gutters and shall surface or cause to be surfaced roadways to the standards
prescribed in §
151.061. Adequate provision shall also be made for culverts, drains, and
bridges. Dedicated walkways shall be improved by the subdivider. Such work
shall be done in accordance with plans prepared by the developer and approved
by the Village Engineer, with engineering and inspection costs determined on
the basis of time devoted to the project not to exceed 4% of the approved
construction estimate for each plat.
   (E)   Water and sewer facilities within the village limits. All subdivisions
within the village limits must have centralized sewer and water systems, either
municipally or privately owned. Individual wells will not be allowed.
Centralized sewage treatment facilities must be provided. Individual septic or
mound systems shall not be permitted. If allowed by variance, all private water
and disposal systems shall comply with all requirements of the Winnebago County
Health Department and the State Environmental Protection Agency. An order from
the Village Engineer approving water and sanitation facilities proposed by the
developer shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Elevation of streets and lots in areas subject to stream overflow.
Whenever a plat is submitted of an area which is subject to stream overflow in
times of high water, the Planning Commission may approve such subdivision
provided that the subdivider fills the affected area of said subdivision to an
elevation sufficient to place the elevation of streets and lots at a minimum of
12 inches above the elevation of the maximum probable flood; except that a plat
of such subdivision shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any
stream or watercourse, in a width which shall be sufficient in times of high
water to contain or move the water, and no fill shall be placed in said
overflow zone or shall any structure be erected or placed therein. The
boundaries of such overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the Village
Engineer.
   (G)   Monuments. The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required herein and as approved by the Village Engineer.
      (1)   The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the
field by monuments of stone or concrete, not less than 30 inches in length, not
less than four inches square or five inches in diameter, and marked on top with
an iron pin, or other durable material securely embedded; or by iron pins at
least 48 inches long and 3/4-inch diameter. These monuments shall be placed not
more than 1,400 feet apart in any straight line and at all corners, at each end
of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at all angle
points in any line, and at all angle points along the meander line. Said points
to be not less than 20 feet back from the bank of any river or stream, except
that when such corners or points fall within a street, or proposed future
street, the monuments shall be placed in the side line of the street.
      (2)   All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred
to in the preceding paragraph shall be monumented in the field like monuments
as described above. These monuments shall be placed at all block corners, at
each end of all curves, at a point where a curve changes its radius and at all
angle points in any line.
      (3)   All lot corners shall be monumented in the field by iron pins at
least 24 inches long and 5/8-inch in diameter.
      (4)   The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be
monumented in the field by iron pins at least 30 inches long. These monuments
shall be placed at the point of intersection of the river or stream lot line,
with a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the bank of the
river or stream.
      (5)   All such monuments shall be set flush with the ground and planted
in such a manner that they will not be removed by frost.
      (6)   All monuments shall be properly set in the ground by a registered
Illinois Land Surveyor and verified by the Village Engineer.
   (H)   Street signs. Street signs, the design, shape, size and color to be
established by the village are to be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, the location of which to be approved by the Village
Engineer.
   (I)   Combination concrete curb and gutter.
      (1)   In all areas where the plat requires the zoning classifications of
R1, R2, RM, RM-C, CR, CG, CH, IL or IH, combination concrete curb and gutter
designed to the specifications currently accepted by the Illinois Department of
Transportation shall be required to be constructed all the street frontage of
all platted property.
      (2)   In all the areas where the plat requires the zoning classification
R1, the requirement of combination curb and gutter specified in this section
may be waived by the Village Board if adequate drainage can be provided in the
plat without the combination curb and gutter. A 24-inch curb and gutter shall
be installed on each side of the roadway.
   (J)   Street trees. The subdivider or condominium developer shall install at
least one street tree for every residential lot or for every 90 lineal feet, or
fraction thereof, of frontage a property has on a public street right-of-way,
whichever is greater. Trees shall be located within the terrace area wherever
possible, midway between the sidewalk and curb. Street trees shall be of a
species acceptable to the village, and be at least two inches in diameter
(caliper) upon planting.
   (K)   Driveways. Where driveways are to be provided, the subdivider or
condominium developer shall install a hard surfaced driveway from all property
lines to the pavement edge of adjacent streets and shall otherwise comply with
the applicable requirements of this code. If concrete curb and gutter is
existing or proposed, then all driveway aprons must be constructed of concrete.
   (L)   Street lights. The subdivider or condominium developer shall install
street lights along all streets proposed to be dedicated, in locations required
by the Village Engineer. Prior to installation, the proposed design of street
lights shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission. Street
lights shall be installed on metal poles, unless specifically approved
otherwise by the Village Engineer and Planning Commission.
   (M)   Other improvements. It is also desirable to install other improvements
such as electric lines, gas mains, cable television lines, and similar
facilities in any subdivision. Whenever the Board of Trustees deems it
necessary, they may require that any such improvements shall be installed as a
condition of final plat approval.
   (N)   Topsoil. Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as
spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six inches of cover
on the lots and at least four inches of cover between sidewalks and curbs, and
shall be stabilized by seeding or planting.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.073 COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. Except for initial site preparation, no construction or
installation or improvements shall commence in a proposed land division,
subdivision or condominium plat until the certified survey map, final plat or
condominium plat has been approved and the Village Engineer has given written
authorization. Initial site preparation shall meet the applicable provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Building permits. The village shall request that the county issue no
building permits for the erection of a structure on any lot not of record until
all the requirements of this section have been met.
   (C)   Approval of engineering plans required.  The following engineering
plans and accompanying construction specifications shall be required by the
Village Engineer before authorization of construction or installation of
improvements:
      (1)   Street plans and profiles showing existing and proposed grades,
elevations and cross-sections of required improvements including: curb and
gutter, sidewalks, walkways, and multi-use paths;
      (2)   Construction site erosion control and sedimentation plans;
      (3)   Sanitary sewer plans and profiles showing the locations, grades,
sizes, elevations and materials of required facilities;
      (4)   Topographic and surface water studies as required in §
151.065 showing profiles, the locations, grades, sizes, cross-sections,
elevations and materials of required storm-sewer and other facilities;
      (5)   Water main plans and profiles showing the locations, sizes,
elevations and materials of required facilities;
      (6)   Street lighting plans showing all proposed locations, designs and
specifications;
      (7)   Planting plans showing the locations, size and species of street
trees and landscaping within any required landscaped buffer strip;
      (8)   Temporary fencing plans showing the location and fencing of all
mature trees to be preserved and protected during and after construction;
      (9)   Additional special plans or information as required.
   (D)   Pre-construction meeting. The subdivider or condominium developer,
prior to commencing any work within the subdivision or condominium plat, shall
make arrangements with the Village Engineer for a pre-construction meeting,
including all contractors. The purpose of such meeting shall be to establish
expectations and schedules for project completion, erosion control,
maintenance, and inspection.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.074 SUBDIVIDER RESPONSIBILITIES DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Erosion control installation. No construction or installation or
improvements shall commence until all required erosion control measures are
installed.
   (B)   Ongoing inspection. The subdivider or condominium developer, or his or
her contractors, shall be responsible for inspection, repair, and/or
replacement of erosion control devices during construction. Inspections shall
be completed twice per month at a minimum, with a written report of each
inspection kept, indicating the date of the inspection and all repairs or
replacements completed.
   (C)   Mud and debris removal. The subdivider or condominium developer, or
his or her contractors, shall remove mud and debris from all public streets in
and adjacent to the subdivision at least once per week. Such materials shall be
removed in a manner that the materials are not forced or directed down any
storm sewer or stormwater management or drainage facility.
   (D)   Maintenance of drainage easements/excavations. The subdivider or
condominium developer, or his or her contractors, shall maintain all drainage
easements on lots from the time of initial grading until the associated
dwelling unit is built and sold. Excavations for foundations shall not be
placed in drainage easements or other locations where excessive grades will
produce run-off of excavated materials. If no other location is available for
this excavated material, proper erosion control measures shall be installed
around all excavated materials.
   (E)   Erosion control measures around certain lots. The subdivider or
condominium developer, or his or her contractors, shall install erosion control
fencing around the perimeter of each building lot if the street grade profile
exceeds 2%, with such installation occurring before lot grading commences.   
   (F)   Detention ponds. The subdivider or condominium developer, or his or
her contractors, shall establish mowable vegetation within detention or
retention pond areas. Excess silt shall be removed from such ponds on a monthly
basis, if determined necessary by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Mowing.  The subdivider or condominium developer, or his or her
contractors, shall mow all properties under their ownership at least once per
month between May and October, if such vegetation is in excess of 12 inches in
height.
   (H)   Paving around manholes. The subdivider or condominium developer, or
his or her contractors, shall place a bituminous pavement ring tapered to
finish grade around all new manhole castings.
   (I)   Final inspections. At the expense of the subdivider or condominium
developer, the Village Engineer shall inspect and approve all completed work
prior to release of the performance guarantees.
   (J)   Submittal of “as built” plans. Following construction of improvements,
the subdivider or condominium developer shall submit to the Village Engineer an
“as built” set of plans showing all public improvements for the plat, both in
digital and reproducible hard copy format. The Village Engineer shall review
the “as built” plans to ensure that the public improvements were built in
conformity with any and all applicable laws, ordinances, regulations and/or
previously approved design/construction plans. The village shall not accept any
public improvements until such time as the Village Engineer has approved the
“as built” plans.
   (K)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with the provisions of this
section will result in a minimum penalty of $750 per day for each separate
violation, starting from the date of written notification from the village.
Penalties per §
151.999 may also apply.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 2-2-16)
**** PARKS AND PUBLIC SPACES ****
§ 151.080 DEDICATION OR FEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Plat approval.  
      (1)   As a condition of approval of a final plat of a subdivision, or of
a final plat of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer shall
be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development and residents of
the village. The village may, at its sole discretion, require a developer or
subdivider to make a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication or a
combination of both land dedication and cash contribution. The amount of land
to be dedicated or the amount of cash contribution shall be in accordance with
the following criteria and formulas set forth in this section.
      (2)   In determining whether the village will require a land dedication
or cash in lieu of land dedication, the village will consider the following
factors:
         (a)   The current and future needs of the village for parklands.
         (b)   The total amount of parklands that currently exists within the
village.
         (c)   The amount of parklands within the surrounding vicinity of a
proposed development.
         (d)   The effect that proposed developments, regardless of their size,
will have on the amount of parklands in the village when those developments are
looked at as a whole.
         (e)   The effect that a proposed development, regardless of its size,
will have on the amount of parklands in the village when the proposed
development is looked at as a whole with existing neighboring developments.
   (B)   Criteria for determining the amount of required park and recreational
land dedication.
      (1)   Proposal submission. Any subdivider or developer may, at the
village’s option as an alternative to payment of the fee referenced above,
submit a proposal to the village for dedication of land in lieu of payment of
said fees. The final decision as to whether or not to accept a dedication of
land in lieu of payment of fees shall rest with the Board of Trustees based on
the village’s park plans or as described in the Village Comprehensive Plan or
other related documents. Under no circumstances shall land designated as water
retention areas or land within floodplains be acceptable as property in lieu of
payment of a fee. The Board of Trustees is free to enter into an agreement
which would involve a combination of dedication of land and payment of a
portion of assessed fees.
      (2)   Requirement and population ratio. The number of dwelling units in
the development (single-family homes, townhouses, duplexes, condominiums or
apartments) to be created by the proposed subdivision plat shall bear directly
upon the amount of land required for dedication. The National Recreation and
Park Association (NRPA) has developed minimum standards for park and open space
dedication requirements that communities can use to determine the amount of
park land to be dedicated by new developments to serve community park and open
space needs. This standard is 10 and 1/2 acres of park land or open space per
1,000 population.
      (3)   Calculation. The total amount of land dedicated shall be based upon
the total number of units in the proposed development multiplied by 2.72
persons per dwelling unit, which is the average household size for the Village
of Rockton according to the 2000 U.S. Census. This equals the total projected
population of the proposed development. The total population of the proposed
development divided by 1,000 will equal the ratio of park land to population
required to serve that particular development. This ratio should be multiplied
by 10 and 1/2 (the NRPA Park and Open Space Standard). This calculation will
yield the total amount of park land required to serve the proposed development.
For example, assume the village receives a new proposal for a 100 lot single-
family residential subdivision.
         (a)   Step 1: 100 units multiplied by 2.72 (2000 Census Aver.
Household Size) = 272 total projected population of proposed development;
         (b)   Step 2: 272 divided by 1,000 = 0.272;
         (c)   Step 3: 0.272 multiplied by 10.5 acres (NRPA standard) = 2.856
acres;
         (d)   Result: The proposed subdivision will require a dedication of
2.856 acres of park/open space land from the subdivider/developer, unless a fee
is accepted.
      (4)   Appropriateness of park land dedication. The size, topography,
soils and subsurface conditions of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings, must be suitable for its intended purpose. The developer shall
provide grading, drainage, and such improvements as deemed necessary by the
Board of Trustees. Floodplain and water retention areas shall comprise no
portion of any park land to be dedicated. Public access to dedicated land shall
be provided by adjoining street frontage of sufficient width to assure safe,
comfortable access to the dedicated land with a minimum public street frontage
of no less than 15% of the perimeter of the park. In unique situations, the
Planning Commission may also permit access via a public easement to the
dedicated parcel. The easement shall be sufficiently wide so that maintenance
equipment will have reasonably convenient access to the land.
      (5)   Water and sewer connections. It shall be a condition of the
acceptance by the village of any land dedication in lieu of payment of fee that
the developer shall be responsible for the placement of water and sewer lines
to the edge of the property proposed to be dedicated to the village for use as
public park lands, at a location approved by the village.
      (6)   Credit for private open space and recreation areas. When
subdividers or developers develop their own space for recreational areas and
facilities, the demand for public facilities is reduced. Depending upon the
size of the development, a portion of the park and recreation area and
subdivisions may be, at the option of the Board of Trustees, provided in the
form of private open space in lieu of public sites; but no part of the private
open space shall be a part of a water retention area or flood area. Credit
shall be given for land only, not for facilities. Prior to acceptance of this
option, the Board of Trustees shall find as follows.
         (a)   Private yards, open space and area regulations required by the
zoning code shall not be included in the computation of such private open
space; and
         (b)   Private ownership and maintenance of the open space shall be
adequately provided for by written agreement and approved by the Village
Attorney; and
         (c)   Use of a private open space shall be ensured for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of
the future owners of property within the tract, and which cannot be eliminated
without the consent of the Board of Trustees; and
         (d)   The proposed private open space site shall be reasonably
adaptable for park use, taking into consideration such factors as size, shape,
topography, geology, drainage, access and location; and
         (e)   No restriction may be placed on the land which would limit the
use of the park or facilities to any person because of race, sex, religion,
creed or require fees charged to the general public to exceed those charged to
the residents of the subdivision or development.
      (7)   When dedication not required.  Whenever a tentative plat includes a
proposed dedication of land for public use and the Planning Commission finds
that such land is not required or not suitable for public use, the Planning
Commission may either refuse to approve such dedication or require the
rearrangement of lots in a proposed subdivision to include such land. The
Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the Board of Trustees as to
whether a dedication of land should be accepted in lieu of fee. The final
decision as to acceptance of land dedication in lieu of fee rests with the
Village President and the Board of Trustees.
      (8)   Acceptance of dedication. Should the village agree to accept land
dedication in lieu of cash, the dedication offer shall be made and accepted by
the Board of Trustees concurrently with final plat approval by the Board. When
a final plat of a subdivision has been approved by the Board of Trustees and
Planning Commission and all other required approvals are obtained, required
improvements completed, and the plat is recorded, that approval shall
constitute acceptance for the purposes designated on the plat of all land shown
on the plat as dedicated to the public for park land.
   (C)   Criteria for determining the amount required for a cash contribution
in lieu of land dedication.
      (1)   (a)   When the Board of Trustees has determined that it will
require a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication, the cash contribution
in lieu of the land dedication shall be determined by first determining the
amount of acreage required to be dedicated pursuant to the formula established
in division (B)(3) above. The amount of acreage required shall then be
multiplied by the fair market value of an acre of land, as determined in either
division (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) (Fair Market Value) of this division (C) in the
proposed development as defined herein, which shall then equal the amount of
the cash contribution.
         (b)   The cash contributions shall be held in a special fund by the
village and disbursed for use in the acquisition or improvement to park sites
only. The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreational land dedication
shall be held in trust by the village or other public body designated by the
village solely for the acquisition of park and recreational land or
improvements to existing property, which will be available to serve the
immediate or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development,
or for the improvement of other existing local parks or recreational lands
which already service such needs. Any parkland fee required by the village
shall be paid to the Village of Rockton prior to the signing of the plat by the
Village President.
      (2)   Fair market value. The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based upon the fair market value of the acres of land in the area improved as
specified herein that otherwise would have been dedicated as park sites. The
fair market value shall be determined by either of the following methods:
         (a)   A value of $20,000 per acre which the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Rockton reasonably believes is supported by comparable sales within
recent years. This equates to an amount of $571.20 per residential unit; or
         (b)   An appraisal prepared not more than one year prior to the
approval of the proposed plat by a MAI designated real estate appraiser to be
furnished by the developer. If the Board of Trustees of the village does not
agree with the appraisal, it may submit its own MAI approved appraisal showing
the fair market value of the tract in question after its proposed improvements.
If the Board of Trustees and the subdivider cannot agree upon which appraisal
shall prevail, the appraisers for the developer and the village shall pick a
third MAI designated appraiser who will submit an appraisal. The average of the
two closest of the three appraisals shall be the fair market value. In the
event that the appraisers chosen by the village and the developer cannot agree
upon a third appraiser, then the Circuit Court of the 17th Judicial Circuit for
the County of Winnebago shall choose the third appraiser.
   (D)   Disbursement of funds for park purposes. Upon approval of the Village
Board of Trustees, the village may utilize such park and recreational land
funds only to serve an area of reasonable proximity to the subdivision from
which the funds were collected. Local park and recreation plans shall be
reviewed by the Board of Trustees prior to the disbursement of any land or fees
dedicated to insure expenditure of funds as in compliance with adopted plans.
   (E)   Objections.  All objections relating to land dedication or cash
contribution requirements, determinations as to fair market value, or any other
application of this section to a particular subdivision or planned development,
shall first be referred to the Village Board for a hearing. An objection must
be made, if at all, prior to the approval of the final plat of subdivision by
the village. A failure to object by such time shall constitute a waiver of the
right to object to the provisions of this section. The procedure for a hearing
before the Village Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   Duties of the Village Board.  The Village Board shall have the
following duties:
         (a)   Resolve objections regarding the fair market value of the land
used to calculate the cash contribution in division (C) herein, the amount of
land dedication or cash contribution required or any other application of this
section to a particular subdivision or planned development.
         (b)   The village shall adopt procedural rules to be used in carrying
out the duties imposed by division (E)(3) below.
      (2)   Information and services to be used.  The village shall make
available to the Village Board all professional reports relating to the fair
market value of land used in calculating cash contributions. The Village Board
may also retain the services of professionals (attorneys, appraisers,
statisticians, etc.) to assist in its review of issues raised by any objection.
      (3)   Procedure for resolving an objection.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an objection, the Village President shall place
same on the next regular meeting agenda of the Village Board. Thereafter, the
Village Board shall consider the objection and by resolution, establish a
hearing date.
         (b)   The Village Board shall post public notice of the hearing date
to consider the objection and shall notify the objector via certified mail,
return receipt requested.
         (c)   The objector shall publish notice of the hearing date once each
week for three consecutive weeks, at least 30 days before but no more than 60
days before the scheduled date of the hearing. Notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the corporate limits of the village.
The notice of public hearing shall appear in the part of the paper where legal
notices appear. The notice shall not be smaller than one-quarter page of a
standard size or tabloid-size newspaper. The objector shall send a copy of said
notice to any person who has requested said notice by certified mail (stamped
at a U.S. Postal Service facility showing the date of mailing) at least 30 days
prior to the hearing date.
         (d)   The notice shall contain all of the following information:
            1.   The headline shall read:
“NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING ON OBJECTION TO APPLICATION OF ORDINANCE REQUIRING
THE DEDICATION OF LAND OR PAYMENT OF THE CASH CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU THEREOF”.
            2.   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
            3.   A statement that the purpose of the hearing is to consider the
objection to a component of the application of the ordinance requiring the
dedication of land or calculation of cash in lieu thereof.
            4.   A general description of the parcel(s), or areas within the
village that are the subject of the hearing.
            5.   A statement that the village shall make available to the
public, upon request, an easily understandable and detailed map of the parcel
(s), or areas to which the ordinance applies, and any other available
information about the objection.
            6.   A statement that any member of the public affected by the
ordinance or the parcel(s) or areas shall have the right to appear at the
public hearing and present testimony and/or evidence in support of or against
the objection.
         (e)   A public hearing shall be held for the consideration of the
objection. The Village Board shall make a recommendation to adopt, reject in
whole or in part, or modify the objection presented at the hearing by written
report to the village, within 60 days after the hearing. The Village shall then
have at least 60, but not more than 120 days to approve, disapprove or modify
by ordinance or resolution, the findings as it pertains to the development in
question.
      (4)   Costs and fees.  The objector shall bear all costs of the hearing
before the Village Board including, but not limited to, attendance fees paid to
the Village Board members, publication costs, professional consultants and any
other expenses of the village.
      (5)   Waiver of right to object.  Failure by the objector to timely
object before the Village Board pursuant to this section shall serve to waive
any right to object at a later time before the Circuit Court of the 17th
Judicial Circuit for the County of Winnebago.
   (F)   For all existing plats recorded prior to August 22, 2006, the fees are
as follows:
      Single-family residential development:   $500 per lot
      Multi-family residential development:   $300 per unit payable at the same
time that water and sewer connection fees are required.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2006-10, passed 9-8-06)
§ 151.081 TENTATIVE PLAT TO ACCOMMODATE PLANNED PUBLIC SPACES.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever a tract to be subdivided includes a proposed
street, highway, or parkway or proposed site for a park, playground, school, or
other public use as indicated on the comprehensive plan or official map of the
village, such space shall be suitably incorporated by the developer into his or
her subdivision plat after proper determination of its necessity by the
Planning Commission and/or other public agency involved in the acquisition and
use of each such site.
   (B)   Requirements for floodplain areas. The Board of Trustees may, when it
deems it necessary for the health, safety or welfare of the present and future
population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage,
and sanitary facilities, prohibit subdivision of any portion of the property
which lies within the floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These
floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or damage
resulting from clearing, grading, or dumping of earth, waste material or
stumps.
   (C)   Acquisition of land for public use.
      (1)   Use of acquired land. The Planning Commission shall consider all
tentative plats and adopted or proposed studies related thereto, to determine
the need for additional acquisition for public use of any of the land included
in the tentative plat beyond that required for dedication under §
151.080. Land may be acquired for: public schools, parks, playgrounds or other
public purposes available for acquisition as pursuant to law.
      (2)   Referral to public body. The Planning Commission shall refer the
plat to the public body concerned with acquisition for its consideration and
report. The Planning Commission may propose alternate areas for such
acquisition and shall allow the public body or agency 30 days to reply. The
agency’s recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map showing the
boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time
required to complete the acquisition.
      (3)   Notice to property owner.  Upon receipt of an affirmative report,
the Planning Commission shall notify the property owner and shall designate on
tentative and final plats that area proposed to be acquired and an estimate of
the time required to complete the acquisition.
      (4)   Duration of land reservation. The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the tentative or final plat shall be initiated within 12
months of notification, in writing, from the owner that he or she intends to
develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be accompanied by a sketch plan
of the proposed development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure
on the part of the public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed
12 months shall result in the removal of the “reserved” designation from the
property involved and the freeing of the property for development.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In any new subdivision or land division whoever sells, offers for
sale, improves by construction of buildings or leases for any time exceeding
five years, any lot, block, parcel, part or division of land in the village
before all applicable requirements of this chapter have been complied with,
shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 a day for each lot, block,
parcel, division or part thereof so disposed of, offered for sale, improved, or
leased.
   (B)   In any new subdivision or land division, whoever shall lay out,
locate, open, widen, or extend or alter the location of any highway, road,
street, alley, public ground, toll road, railroad, or canal and refuses or
neglects to cause a plat thereof, showing the width, courses, and extent
thereof and making such reference to known and established corners of monuments
that the location thereof may be ascertained to be made and recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds six months after such highway, road, street,
alley, public ground, toll road, railroad or canal is laid out, located,
opened, widened or extended or the location thereof altered shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $250 for every day he or she shall continue in such
refusal or neglect after conviction and legal cost therefor, to be recovered
before any magistrate of the county, in the name of the village.
   (C)   Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Plats Officer or
employee of the village that any of the provisions of this chapter have been
violated, it shall be his or her duty to notify the Board of Trustees who shall
notify the Village Attorney of the fact. The Village Attorney shall institute
the necessary legal proceedings to enforce the provisions of this chapter, and
is hereby authorized to institute appropriate action to that end.
(Ord. § 506, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 1989-11, passed 12-4-89; Am. Ord. 2004-
30, passed 11-16-04)
APPENDIX 1: CERTIFICATIONS
Section
§ 1 CERTIFICATION BY THE SURVEYOR.
“I hereby certify that, at the request of the owner, I have surveyed and
subdivided according to the annexed plat
                                        of
                                         Subdivision; a part of the
                                               Principal Meridian, bounded and
described as follows:
   (Legal Description)
“Dimensions are given in feet and decimals of a foot. Iron pins 3/4-inch in
diameter and 4 feet long have been found or set at all points marked on the
plat with a                                                               , and
iron pins 5/8-inch in diameter and 3 feet long have been found or set at all
other lot corners.
“Given under my hand and seal this                           day of
                                   , 20                      , at
                                                           .
                                                                                      ”
                  Registered Land Surveyor No.                   
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 2 CERTIFICATION OF DEDICATION BY THE OWNER OF THE LAND.
“As owner, I hereby certify that I have caused the land described in the
foregoing affidavit of the surveyor, to be surveyed, divided and mapped as
presented on this plat. All streets, alleys, walkways, parks, playgrounds and
school sites shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the
public purposes, and all easements shown are subject to the easement provisions
in Ch. 151 of the village code of ordinances.”
                                                                                   
                  Owner
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 3 CERTIFICATION BY NOTARY PUBLIC.
“I,
                                                                               ,
a Notary Public in and for the County of
                                                      in the State of
                                     , do hereby certify that
                                              personally known to me to be the
same person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the foregoing instrument,
appeared before me this day in person and severally (jointly) acknowledged that
he (they) signed, sealed, and delivered said instrument as his (their) free and
voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.”
“Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this               day of
                                , 20              .”
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 4 CERTIFICATION BY THE COUNTY CLERK.
“I,
                                                                                                 ,
County Clerk of Winnebago County in the State of Illinois, do hereby certify
that I find no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes,
delinquent special assessments or unpaid current special assessments against
the lands embraced within the annexed plat of
                                                                    
Subdivision.
“In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal of the County of
Winnebago this                     day of                                    ,
20             .”
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 5 CERTIFICATION BY THE VILLAGE ENGINEER.
“I hereby certify that I have reviewed and approved all engineering plans for
the property embraced with Plat No._____ of
                                                                       
Subdivision. Construction plans have been submitted, and approved, improvements
have been built as required, or a bond, or letter of credit in a sufficient
amount has been provided for this construction.
Dated this                          day of
                                                         , 20              .”
                                                                             
                     Village Engineer
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 6 CERTIFICATION BY PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRPERSON.
“This is to certify that the Planning Commission of the Village of Rockton did,
at its meeting on the                       day of
                                                     , 20              approve
the plat and forward it to the Board of Trustees.”
                                                                                 
                     Chairperson
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 7 CERTIFICATION BY THE PLAT OFFICER.
“Having reviewed the recommendations of the Planning Commission, and finding
substantial conformity with all pertinent laws, rules and regulations including
Chapter 151 of the village code of ordinance and the tentative plat of this
subdivision as conditionally approved, this plat is given final approval this
                           day of
                                                                       ,
20                          .”
                                                                                 
                     Village of Rockton, Plat Officer
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 8 CERTIFICATION BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
“This is to certify that the Village of Rockton has reviewed the attached plat
of
                                                                               
Subdivision. In witness thereof, I have hereto set my hand this
                               day of
                                           , 20                  .”
                                                                                 
                     President of Village Board of Trustees
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 9 CERTIFICATION BY VILLAGE CLERK.
“This is to certify that the Board of Trustees of the Village of Rockton did,
at its meeting on the                                       day of
                                                    , 20                 
approve of the plat and authorize it to be recorded.
In witness thereof, I
                                                               , Village Clerk
of the Village of Rockton hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of said
Village of Rockton this                         day of
                                                            , 20            .”
                                                                                
                     Village Clerk
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
§ 10 FORM FOR CERTIFICATION OF RECORDING OFFICIAL.
“Filed for record this                     day of
                                            , 20            , at
                    o’clock         M., recorded in Book
                              of plats, page                and examined.”
                                                                                
                     County Recorder
                     Document Number                           
(Ord. § 903, passed 1-15-74; Am. Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
APPENDIX 2: SITE ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST FORM
   (A)   To be submitted in advance of a tentative plat:
ITEM OF INFORMATION YES NO
ITEM OF INFORMATION                                                      YES NO
I. Land Resources. Does the project site involve:
A. Changes in relief and drainage patterns (Attach a topographical map
showing, at a minimum, two-foot contour intervals)
B. A landform or topographical feature including perennial streams
C. A floodplain (If “yes,” attach maps of the 100-year floodplain
limits.)
D. Prevention of future gravel extraction
E. A drainage-way with a tributary area of five or more acres
F. Lot coverage of more than 50% impermeable surfaces
G. Prime agricultural land as depicted in the applicable “County Soils
Survey” or adopted farm land preservation plans
H. Wetlands as depicted on DNR wetland inventory maps or more detailed
sources
II. Water Resources. Does the project site involve:
A. Location in an area traversed by a navigable stream, intermittent
stream, or dry run
B. Impact on the capacity of a stormwater storage system or flow of a
waterway within one mile
C. The use of septic systems for on-site waste disposal
D. Lowering of water table by pumping or drainage
E. Raising of water table by altered drainage
F. Frontage on a lake, river, or other navigable waterway
III. Biological Resources. Does the project site involve:
A. Critical habitat for plants and animals of community interest per DNR
inventory
B. Trees with a diameter of six or more inches at breast height (If yes,
all trees of such size must be mapped.)
C. Trees with a diameter of six inches or more or removal of over 40% of
the trees on the site within woodland with a continuous canopy cover of
one acre or more
IV. Human and Scientific Interest. Does this project site involve:
An area of historical interest, including historic buildings or
monuments listed on the State or National Register of Historic Places
V. Energy, Transportation and Communications.
A. Would the development increase traffic flow on any arterial or
collector street by more than 10% based upon the most recent traffic
counts and trip generation rates provided by the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE)?
B. Is the land traversed by an existing or planned roadway corridor, as
shown on the village’s official map or comprehensive plan?
C. Is the land within a highway noise impacted area (within 500 feet of
a state or federal highway)?
D. Is the land traversed by an existing or planned utility corridor
(gas, electrical, water, sewer, storm, and communications)?
VI. Population.
A. Which public school service areas (elementary, middle and high) are   E:Cap:
affected by the proposed development, and what is their current          M:Cap:
available capacity?                                                      H:Cap:
VII. Appendices and Supporting Material.
 
   (B)   “Yes” answers must be explained in detail by attaching maps and
supportive documentation providing additional detail and describing the impacts
of the proposed development.
(Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-16-04)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Objectives of the zoning code
   
152.002   Nature of the zoning code
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Application
   
152.005   Establishment of districts
   
152.006   District boundaries
   
152.007   Conformity required
   
152.008   Definitions
   
152.009   Fee
Zoning District General Provisions
   
152.020   Basic requirements for all districts
   
152.021   Site area and dimensions: requirements and exceptions
   
152.022   Building height limits
   
152.023   Accessory structures
   
152.024   Screening and landscaping
   
152.025   Annexed and unzoned territory
   
152.026   Number of dwellings on a zoning lot
   
152.027   Swimming pools
Agricultural (AG) Districts
   
152.035   Purposes
   
152.036   Required conditions
   
152.037   Permitted uses
   
152.038   Special uses
   
152.039   Lot size
   
152.040   Yards
Urban Transitional (UT) Districts
   
152.050   Purposes
   
152.051   Required conditions
   
152.052   Permitted uses
   
152.053   Special uses
   
152.054   Lot size
   
152.055   Yard areas
Rural Estates (RE) Districts
   
152.065   Purposes
   
152.066   Required conditions
   
152.067   Permitted uses
   
152.068   Special uses
   
152.069   Lot size
   
152.070   Yard areas
Single-Family (R1) Districts
   
152.080   Purposes
   
152.081   Required conditions
   
152.082   Permitted uses
   
152.083   Special uses
Two-Family Residential (R2) Districts
   
152.100   Purposes
   
152.101   Required conditions
   
151.102   Permitted uses
   
152.103   Special uses
Multiple-Family Residential (RM) Districts
   
152.115   Purposes
   
152.116   Required conditions
   
152.117   Permitted uses
   
152.118   Special uses
   
152.119   Application and review procedures
Multiple-Family Residential Condo (RM-C) Districts
   
152.130   Purposes
   
152.131   Required conditions
   
152.132   Definition of RM-C condo
   
152.133   Permitted uses
   
152.134   Special uses
   
152.135   Application and review procedures
   
152.136   Recorded plat required
   
152.137   Guarantee of completion
   
152.138   Revocation
   
152.139   New application
   
152.140   Special uses
Commercial (C) Districts
   
152.150   Purposes
   
152.151   Required conditions
   
152.152   Permitted uses
   
152.153   Special uses
Industrial (I) Districts
   
152.165   Purposes
   
152.166   Required conditions
   
152.167   Permitted uses
   
152.168   Special uses
   
152.169   Setback and yard requirements
   
152.170   Performance standards
Special Districts
   
152.180   Special district purposes
   
152.181   Required conditions
   
152.182   Public Park and Conservation District
   
152.183   Cemetery District
   
152.184   Conservation Neighborhood Design (CND) Overlay District
Planned Unit Development
   
152.195   Planned unit development
   
152.196   General purpose
   
152.197   Definition of planned unit development
   
152.198   Allowable uses
   
152.199   Permitted density and specifications
   
152.200   Application and review procedures
   
152.201   Recorded plat required
   
152.202   Guarantee of completion
   
152.203   Time limits and revocation
   
152.204   New application
   
152.205   Changes or alterations
Parking and Loading
   
152.215   Parking and loading requirements
   
152.216   Interpretation
   
152.217   Proximity and location
   
152.218   Collective usage
   
152.219   Design
   
152.220   Publicly established parking
   
152.221   Loading standards
Outdoor Advertising and Signs
   
152.235   Purpose
   
152.236   Sign permits
   
152.237   Sign types and measurement
   
152.238   General signage standards
   
152.239   Regulations for residential districts
   
152.240   Regulations for nonresidential districts
   
152.241   Temporary signs
   
152.242   Structural requirements
   
152.243   Maintenance requirements
   
152.244   Nonconforming signs
Design Review
   
152.255   Purpose
   
152.256   Plans to be approved
   
152.257   Definitions
   
152.258   Anti-monotony construction standards for one-family dwelling units
   
152.259   Administration, variances and appeals
   
152.260   Drawings to be submitted—multiple family and non-residential projects
   
152.261   Standards for architectural review—multiple family and non-
residential principal buildings
   
152.262   Action of the Planning Commission
   
152.263   Action of Village Board of Trustees
   
152.264   Time limits
Landscaping, Screening and Buffering
   
152.275   Intent
   
152.276   Screening
   
152.277   Walls and fences
   
152.278   Landscaping standards
   
152.279   Required screening for trash areas
   
152.280   Vision clearance on corner and alley lots
   
152.281   Exceptions and interpretation
Performance Standards
   
152.295   Compliance required
   
152.296   Performance standards
   
152.297   Administration and enforcement of performance standards
Home Occupations
   
152.305   Required conditions
Mobile Home Park
   
152.315   Occupancy
   
152.316   Pre-application requirements
   
152.317   Required conditions
   
152.318   Design and performance standards
Determination as to Uses Not Listed
   
152.330   Purpose and initiation
   
152.331   Application
   
152.332   Investigation
   
152.333   Referral to Planning Commission
   
152.334   Determination of Planning Commission
   
152.335   Determination of Zoning Board
   
152.336   Effective date of determination
   
152.337   Appeal to the Village Board of Trustees
   
152.338   Determination by Village Board of Trustees
Special Uses
   
152.350   Purpose
   
152.351   Application for special use permit
   
152.352   Public hearing: notice
   
152.353   Referral to Planning Commission
   
152.354   Public hearing: procedure
   
152.355   Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.356   Conditions
   
152.357   Action by Village Board of Trustees
   
152.358   Lapse of special use permit
   
152.359   Revocation
   
152.360   New application
   
152.361   Special use permit to run with the land
Zoning Permit
   
152.375   Purpose and requirements
   
152.376   Application and issuance of zoning permit
   
152.377   Issuance of building permit
   
152.378   Issuance of a certificate of occupancy
Variances
   
152.390   Purpose and authorization
   
152.391   Application for variance
   
152.392   Public hearing: notice
   
152.393   Referral to Planning Commission
   
152.394   Public hearing: procedure
   
152.395   Action by Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.396   Conditions
   
152.397   Action by Village Board of Trustees
   
152.398   Lapse of variance
   
152.399   Revocation
   
152.400   New application
Nonconforming Buildings And Uses
   
152.410   Continuance of use
   
152.411   Discontinuance of use
   
152.412   Change or conversion of nonconforming use
   
152.413   Termination and removal of nonconforming uses, buildings and
structures in residential districts
   
152.414   Repairs and alterations
   
152.415   Damage and destruction
   
152.416   Additions and enlargements
Administration
   
152.425   Office of Zoning Administration
   
152.426   Planning Commission
   
152.427   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.428   Appeal of Zoning Administrator’s decision
   
152.429   Enforcement
Amendments
   
152.440   Purpose
   
152.441   Initiation
   
152.442   Application and fee
   
152.443   Action of Zoning Board
   
152.444   Action of the Village Board
   
152.445   New application
   
152.446   Development fees
Adult-Use Cannabis
   
152.500   Purpose and applicability
   
152.501   Special use
   
152.502   Adult-use cannabis facility components
   
152.503   Adult-use cannabis craft grower
   
152.504   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center
   
152.505   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
   
152.506   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization
   
152.507   Adult-use cannabis processing organization
   
152.508   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
   
152.509   Additional requirements
   
152.510   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
 
   
152.999   Penalties
   
Appendix 1:   Zoning schedule
   
Appendix 2:   Schedule of required off-street parking spaces
   
Appendix 3:   Uses allowed in commercial districts
Cross-reference:
   Administrative enforcement, see
Ch. 35
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.001 OBJECTIVES OF THE ZONING CODE.
   The objectives of the village zoning code are as follows:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, peace, comfort,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the people residing within the
limits of the village;
   (B)   To implement the policies and proposals of the village comprehensive
plan prepared by the Planning Commission and adopted by the Village Board of
Trustees and the Winnebago County Board of Supervisors;
   (C)   To divide the village into zones or districts restricting and
regulating herein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, remodeling and use of buildings, structures and land for
residential, commercial, industrial, recreational and other specified uses
thereby providing a framework upon which the community can develop in a very
orderly manner;
   (D)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (E)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village;
   (F)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue construction of
structures in each district, by regulating the use and bulk of buildings in
relation to land surrounding them;
   (G)   To provide adequate light and air protection of the public health by
regulating the area of open spaces surrounding the buildings;
   (H)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare of the people by the appropriate regulation and land uses necessary to
limit congestion on the public streets and traffic and pedestrian conflicts and
by provision for off-street parking of motor vehicles and off-street loading
and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   (I)   To protect the public health and safety through the regulation of
development so that hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
the accumulation or runoff of storm or floodwaters may be lessened or avoided;
   (J)   To minimize bodily harm to the person and damage to personal property
or chattel by fire, explosion, toxic fumes and other hazards;
   (K)   To provide for the control of and eventual elimination of prior uses,
buildings and structures which are incompatible with the character and
adversely affecting the value of desirable development in the district or zone
in which they are located.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 100, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.002 NATURE OF THE ZONING CODE.
   The zoning code shall consist of a zoning map designating certain districts
and a set of regulations controlling the uses of land; the density of
population; the uses and locations of structures; the height and bulk of
structures; the open spaces about structures; the appearance of certain uses
and structures; the areas and dimensions of sites; the location, size and
illumination of signs; and requiring the provision of usable open space,
screening and landscaping and off-street parking and off-street loading
facilities.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 101, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. No provision of this chapter is
intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with any existing
ordinance of the village, except as is specifically repealed herein, provided
that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction on the use of land or
structures or in the height or bulk of structures, or requires greater open
spaces about structures, or greater areas or dimensions of sites than is
imposed or required by an existing ordinance, this chapter shall control.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul, impair or interfere
with any easement or other agreement between parties, provided that where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction on the use of land or structures or
greater areas or dimensions of sites than is imposed or required by deed
restriction, covenant, easement, or other agreement, this chapter shall
control.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 102, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.004 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all property, regardless of ownership, within
the village except for the following land uses:
   (A)   Railroad right-of-way;
   (B)   Underground utility lines and facilities;
   (C)   Telephone cable and supporting poles;
   (D)   Electric distribution lines (but not electric transmission lines); and
   (E)   Cable TV distribution lines.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 103, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the following districts
are established:
   AG   Agricultural
   UT   Urban Transitional
   RE   Rural Estates District
   R1   One-Family Residential District
   R2   Two-Family Residential District
   RM   Multiple-Family Residential District
   RM-C   Multiple-Family Residential Condo District
   CR   Central Retail and Commercial District
   CG   General Commercial District
   CH   Highway Commercial District
   CN   Neighborhood Commercial District
   IL   Light Industrial District
   IG   General Industrial District
   IH   Heavy Industrial District
   PC   Special Districts
   PUD   Planned Unit Development District
(Ord. 1994-3, § 104, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.006 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of a district as shown on
the zoning map, the following regulations shall control:
   (A)   Where a boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley or
watercourse, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof;
   (B)   Where a boundary line follows or coincides approximately with a lot
line or property ownership line, it shall be construed as following the lot
line or property ownership line;
   (C)   Where a boundary line is not indicated as following a street or alley
and does not follow or coincide approximately with a lot line or property
ownership line, the boundary line shall be determined by the use of the scale
designated on the zoning map;
   (D)   Where further uncertainty exists, the Zoning Board of Appeals, upon
written application or on its own motion, shall determine the location of the
boundary in question, giving due consideration to the location indicated on the
zoning map and the objectives of the zoning code and the purposes set forth in
the district regulations.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 105, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.007 CONFORMITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   No site or structure shall be used or designated for use for any
purpose or in any number other than in conformity with the regulations for the
district in which the site or structure is located.
   (B)   No structure shall be erected and no existing structure or use shall
be moved, altered or enlarged except in conformity with the regulations for the
district in which the structures or use is located.
   (C)   Except within approved PUD districts, no yard space provided in
compliance with the regulations for the district in which it is located shall
be deemed to provide a yard space for any other structure. No yard or usable
open space on one site shall be deemed to provide a yard space or usable open
space for a structure on any other site.
   (D)   No yard, court or usable open space shall be used, encroached upon or
reduced in any manner except in conformity with the regulations for the
district in which the yard, court or open space is located.
   (E)   No site held in one ownership at the time of the adoption of this
chapter or any time thereafter shall be reduced in any manner below the minimum
area, frontage, width or depth prescribed for the district in which the site is
located.
   (F)   All nonconforming use shall be governed by the provisions of the
subchapter of this zoning code relating to nonconforming buildings and uses.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 106, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires another meaning.
      ABANDONMENT. A voluntary action to give up one’s rights or interests in
property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. An accessory building is one which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal
use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants of the principal building or principal use served;
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served;
         (e)   Includes, but is not limited to, a detached private garage,
carport, storage shed, greenhouse, cabana, gazebo, or boathouse;
         (f)   Conforms to all requirements in §
152.023.
      ACCESSORY USE. An accessory use is one which is subsidiary to the main
use of the premises and is limited to the following:
         (a)   A children’s playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse;
         (b)   A garage, carport, shed or building for domestic storage;
         (c)   Incinerators incidental to residential use;
         (d)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or use, unless such storage is excluded by the district
regulations;
         (e)   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing
activities, unless such storage is excluded by the district regulations;
         (f)   A house or rooms for nonpaying guests within an accessory
building, or provided such facilities are used for the occasional housing of
guests by the occupant of the principal building and not for permanent
occupancy;
         (g)   Swimming pool, bathhouse, cabana, gazebo, for use by the
occupant and his or her guests;
         (h)   Off-street motor car parking areas and loading and unloading
facilities;
         (i)   Signs (other than advertising signs as defined in this section)
as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated in this chapter;
         (j)   Public utility facilities–telephone, electric, gas, water and
sewer lines, cable TV, their supports and incidental equipment;
         (k)   Quarters comprising part of an accessory garage and solely for
occupancy by a household employee (and his or her family) of the occupants of
the principal dwelling.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. A business having as its substantial
or significant business purpose the offering to the public or its members of a
product or service including, but not limited to, entertainment, intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification, and which product or
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis
cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds
to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      ALLEY. A public way which affords only a secondary means of vehicular
access to property abutting thereon.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family dwelling,
including where one or more living units are established above nonresidential
uses, intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family. Complete
kitchen and permanently installed bath facilities must always be included for
each apartment.
      APARTMENT HOTEL. An apartment building under resident supervision which
maintains an inner lobby or lobbies through which all tenants must pass to gain
access to the apartments and which may furnish for the exclusive use of its
tenants by previous arrangement, but not to anyone who may apply, the services
ordinarily furnished by hotels.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two families. Complete kitchen and bath facilities,
permanently installed, must be included for each apartment.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of
worn or damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body,
frame, or fender straightening or repair, and painting of vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of minor parts
and motor service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified
under AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
      BABYSITTING SERVICE. A building or portion thereof used for the care of
from one to seven children excluding the children of the occupant of the
building residing in said building and subject to the home occupation permit
requirements.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building or structure with the floor located
below grade level. A basement shall be counted as a story for purposes of
height measurement when one-half or more of its height is above grade level.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. Exclusively indoor lodging facilities which provide
meals only to paying lodgers, with no lodger staying greater than 31 days
during any one stay. Such land uses may provide indoor recreational facilities
for the exclusive use of their customers.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by street, or in lieu of a street or
streets, by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or
shore lines of waterways or corporate boundary lines of municipalities.
      BOARDING HOUSE. Any residential use renting rooms which does not contain
private bathroom facilities, with the exception of approved bed and breakfast
facilities, and with such rooms provided for compensation to not more than six
guests who are not members of the family.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a lot after the minimum open space
yards and setback requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for
the sheltering or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any
kind; any structures with interior areas not normally accessible for human use,
such as gas, oil or water tanks, grain elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking
towers and other similar structures, are not considered as buildings.
      BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and
its accessory buildings, excluding cornices projecting not more than 30 inches,
open steps and unroofed terraces.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
natural grade of the ground covered by the structure to the highest point of
the structure or to the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. A line running parallel to a street located at the minimum
horizontal distance between the building and the street right-of-way line on
any lot, tract or parcel of land.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line at
a distance from it, regulated by the setback requirements set up in this
chapter.
      BULK. The term used to indicate the size, height and for gross floor area
of buildings or structures.
      CAMPING APPARATUS. Includes but is not limited to tents, and all other
temporary structures used for overnight camping.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A canvas, material, or other metal folding structure,
mounted on wheels, and designed for travel, recreational or vacation uses.
      CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. A building or complex in which an organization
of physicians, dentists, chiropractors and/or individuals practicing
acupuncture and/or holistic healing, work cooperatively and have their offices
in a common building. A clinic shall not include in-patient care.
      CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE. A nonprofit association of persons, who are bona
fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building or
portion thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their
guests. All private clubs or lodges as defined above shall be permitted to rent
or lease their premises which are not inconsistent with the permitted uses of
said facility of the private club or lodge.
      COMMERCIAL TRUCK. A truck used primarily for commercial purposes.
Commercial trucks, no larger than one ton, are permitted to be parked on
residentially zoned lots. Semi trailers, full trailers and diesel cabs are
considered to be commercial trucks.
      COMPLETE KITCHEN AND BATHROOM FACILITIES. Kitchen facilities shall
consist of a sink and electric or gas connections for cooking and refrigeration
facilities. Bathroom facilities shall consist of a permanently installed water
closet, lavatory and either shower or tub fixtures.
      CONDOMINIUM. System of separate ownership of individual traits in a
multiple-unit building with common walls.
      COURT. An open space on the same lot with a building surrounded by walls
on two or more sides, and unoccupied and unobstructed from the lowest level
upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A facility in which qualified persons provide care
services for several children or adults. Examples include child care centers,
nursery schools, and adult day care facilities.
      DAY NURSERY SCHOOL. A building or portion thereof used for the care of
eight or more pre-school-age children excluding the children of the occupant of
the building residing in said building.
      DECK. A flat wooden floor area attached to or adjoining a residence,
which is not enclosed and does not contain a solid roof.
      DISTRICT. A section of the village in all parts of which the regulations
of this chapter governing height, area and use of buildings and premises are
the same.
      DISTRICT BOUNDARY. A line forming one of the boundaries of a given
district.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A type of in-vehicle sales and service operation
where food and/or beverages are sold to customers for consumption primarily in
an automobile parked upon the premises.
      DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT. A type of in-vehicle sales and service
operation where food and/or beverages are sold to customers for consumption
primarily in an automobile parked upon the premises.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not including a travel
trailer, mobile home, camper, or houseboat, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling
units and multiple-family dwelling units, but not including hotels, motels,
boarding or lodging houses.
      DWELLING (MULTIPLE-FAMILY). A building having accommodations for and
occupied exclusively by more than two families living independently of each
other with separate and complete kitchen and bathroom facilities.
      DWELLING (SINGLE-FAMILY). A building having accommodations for and
occupied exclusively by not more than one family.
      DWELLING (TWO-FAMILY). A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by two families living independently of each other with separate
and complete kitchen and bathroom facilities.
      FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons, each related by blood,
marriage, legal guardianship, adoption or a foster care arrangement, living
together as a single housekeeping unit, or a group of not more than four
persons not so related, maintaining a common household in which bathrooms,
kitchen facilities, and living quarters are shared.
      FENCE, SOLID. A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, which
effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties and streets
materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. For the purpose of determining requirements for off-
street parking and off-street loading, the floor area shall mean the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion
thereof, devoted to such use, including accessory storage areas located within
selling or working space, such as counters, racks, or closets, and any basement
floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of
goods, or to business or professional offices. However, floor area, for
purposes of measurement for off-street parking spaces, shall not include: Floor
area devoted primarily to storage purposes (except as otherwise noted herein);
floor area devoted to off- street parking or loading facilities, including
aisles, ramps and maneuvering space, or basement floor area other than area
devoted to retailing activities, to the production of processing of goods, or
to business or professional offices.
      FRONT LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot along a street or right-of-way, and
for a corner lot the front lot line shall be the shorter lot boundary along a
street or right-of-way.
      FRONT OF BUILDING. The side of a building most nearly parallel with and
adjacent to the front lot line.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building housing not more than four motor-
driven vehicles.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises except those used as a private
or storage garage, used for equipping, repairing, hiring, renting, selling or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
      GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, used for housing only of
motor-driven vehicles, other than trucks and commercial vehicles, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to transients, and at which the vehicles are
equipped, repaired, hired or sold.
      GRADE. The average level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of
the building.
      GROSS DENSITY.  The result of dividing the number of dwelling units
located on a site by the gross site area. See MAXIMUM GROSS DENSITY.
      GROSS SITE AREA. The total land area on a lot prior to development or
additional development on the lot, available for inclusion in calculations of
the maximum permitted density or intensity of development.
      GROUP DEVELOPMENT. Any development containing two or more structures
containing principal land uses on the same lot or within a single commercial
development project.
      GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within an accessory building located on the
same premises with the principal building, for use by temporary guests of the
occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall not be rented or otherwise used
as a separate dwelling.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation conducted within a dwelling by
the residents thereof that is clearly secondary to the residential use and that
does not change the character of the structure as a residence.
      HOTEL. A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such it is open to the public in contra- distinction
to a boarding house, an apartment house or an apartment hotel, which are herein
separately defined.
      HOUSEBOAT. A free-floating or permanently anchored device intended for
use upon water and including kitchen, bath and/or bedroom accommodations
sufficient to allow one or more persons to permanently reside therein.
      IN-VEHICLE SALES AND SERVICE.  All land uses which perform sales and/or
service to persons in vehicles, or to vehicles that may or may not be occupied
at the time of such activity, except motor vehicle repair services. Examples of
such land uses include drive-in and drive-through facilities, vehicular fuel
stations, and all forms of car washes. If performed in conjunction with a
principal land use (for example, a convenience store, restaurant, or bank), in-
vehicle sales and service land uses shall be considered an accessory use.
      JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or
handled, including auto and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses
taking place entirely within a completely enclosed building.
      KENNEL. Any zoning lot or premises on which four or more dogs and/or cats
at least four months of age are kept, boarded or trained, whether in special
buildings, runways or not.
      LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A traffic-way, including toll roads, for through-
traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or land
and other persons have no legal right of access to or from the same, except at
such points and only in such manner as may be determined by the public
authority having jurisdiction over such roadway.
      LODGING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use
permitted in this chapter, including one main building or principal use except
where otherwise allowed in this chapter, together with its accessory building,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this chapter, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two streets or rights-
of-way or a lot bounded on two sides by a curving street or right-of-way and
two adjacent chords of which form an angle of 120 degrees or less measured on
the lot side.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      LOT, IRREGULAR. Any lot or parcel of land which is not square or
rectangular in shape.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the map or plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Winnebago
County, Illinois; or a parcel of land, the deed to which was recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds prior to the adoption of this chapter.
      LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side
of another lot, whether across an alley or not.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A residential dwelling for one family, fabricated
in an off-site facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a HUD label or insignia certifying that it is built in compliance with
the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction Standards under 42 USC § 5401 to
5426, and built after June 15, 1976. A manufactured housing unit shall be
considered equivalent to a single-family dwelling for the purposes of this
chapter only where it meets the following criteria applicable to all single-
family dwellings:
         (a)   All wheels, axles, transportation lights, and other related
towing apparatuses shall be removed;
         (b)   The dwelling must be attached to a finished, permanent
foundation, such as a poured concrete slab or basement, which complies with the
requirements of the State of Illinois Uniform Dwelling Code;
         (c)   The minimum floor area shall be not less than 850 square feet,
exclusive of an attached garage, carport, or open deck;
         (d)   The dwelling shall include a roof pitch of at least three feet
in rise for every 12 feet in run.
         MANUFACTURED HOUSING that does not meet one or more of the criteria
listed above shall be deemed equivalent to a mobile home for purposes of this
chapter.
      MAXIMUM GROSS DENSITY. The maximum number of dwelling units permitted per
acre of gross site area. See GROSS DENSITY.
      MOBILE HOME.  A transportable factory-built structure designed for long-
term occupancy by one family, and built prior to June 15, 1976, the effective
date of the Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act.
A MOBILE HOME is not considered to be a type of single- family dwelling for the
purposes of this chapter. Also referred to as TRAILER HOME.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot or parcel of land where mobile home spaces are
rented, leased or offered for rent or lease for one or more mobile homes for
residential living.
      MODULAR HOME. Manufactured housing assembled in units on site.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which lodging or board and
lodging are provided and offered to the public for compensation and in which
rooms are directly accessible from an outdoor area.
      NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A detailed land use and transportation
plan for a specific neighborhood, district, or part of a community.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL PRINCIPAL BUILDING. Any principal building that is not a
dwelling.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot of record existing at the date of the passage of
this chapter which does not have the minimum width or certain the minimum area
for the zone in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A lawful structure which exists upon the
adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms
of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area lot coverage, height, yards
or other characteristics of the structure, or its location on the lot.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land which was lawfully
established and maintained, but which does not conform with the use regulations
or required conditions for the district in which it is located, by reason of
adoption of this chapter or amendment of this chapter, or by reason of
annexation of territory to the village.
      NURSING HOME, REST HOME, CONVALESCENT HOME. A private facility for the
care of children or the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering
bodily disorders, but not including facilities used primarily for the treatment
of sickness, injuries or surgical care.
      OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. An outdoor artificial illuminating device, either
permanent or portable, used for illumination or advertisement of parking lots,
architecture, signage, landscaping, entryways, or areas requiring security.
      PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. Any open, hard-surfaced area with a dustless and
durable, hard, all-weather surface, such as concrete, asphalt, or brick pavers,
and other than a street or public way, designated, arranged and made available
for the storage of private passenger automobiles and pickup trucks, but not
including trailers, mobile homes or boats, of occupants of buildings for which
parking is developed and is accessory.
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard-surfaced area with a dustless and
durable, hard, all-weather surface, such as concrete, asphalt, or brick pavers,
and other than a street or public way, intended to be used for the storage of
passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles under 1½ tons capacity, and
available to the public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation
to clients or customers.
      PARKING SPACE. An area with a dustless and durable, hard, all-weather
surface, such as concrete, asphalt, or brick pavers, adequate for parking a
vehicle with room for opening doors on both sides, together with a clear,
properly related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room which
shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way. Driveways
for single-family uses in any zoning district are exempt from the hard-surface
requirements of this definition.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development occupying two or more gross
acres, including all land within the project boundaries plus one-half of all of
the adjacent public rights-of-way, to be constructed by a single owner or group
of owners acting jointly, located on one or more lot(s) of record; involving a
related group of single or mixed uses, planned as an entity and, therefore,
acceptable for development and regulation as one complex land use unit, rather
than as a mere aggregation of individual buildings located on separate
unrelated lots.
      PORCH, COVERED. A roofed structure, projecting out from the wall or walls
of a main structure.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted, or in which is
intended to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot in which it is
located.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A boat, boat with trailer, motor home, motor coach,
pickup camper, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, camping trailer, travel
trailer, fifth-wheel trailer, utility trailer, race car and its trailer, canoe
or kayak and its trailers, tent camper, folding camper, utility trailer,
carnival equipment and their trailers, and a case or box used to transport a
recreational vehicle or its equipment, and any similar equipment or vehicle.
      ROOMING HOUSE. See BOARDING HOUSE.
      SERVICE STATIONS. A type of in-vehicle sales and service operation
including any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other place used for
the dispensing, sale or offering for sale of any motor vehicle fuels or oil,
having pumps and underground storage tanks, of a total capacity of not more
than 40,000 gallons, located wholly within the lot lines. When such dispensing,
sale or offering for sale of any fuels or oils is incidental to the conduct of
a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public garage.
      SHIELDED LIGHT FIXTURE.  An outdoor lighting fixture which through design
is shielded in such a manner that light rays emitted by the fixture, either
directly from the lamp or indirectly from the fixture, are projected by at
least 15 degrees below a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on
the fixture where light is emitted. Except for ground- and sign-mounted light
fixtures, that horizontal plane shall be parallel to the surface of the ground.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display, structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors or within a window and in view of the general public, which is used to
advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to an object, person,
institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location by
any means, including words, letters, figures, logos, symbols, fixtures, color,
lighting, or projected images. SIGNS do not include the flag or emblem of any
nation, organization of nations, state, city or village, religious, fraternal,
or civic organization; also merchandise and pictures or models of products or
services incorporated in a window display, works of art which in no way
identify a product, or scoreboards located on athletic fields. Building colors
and outline lighting which do not convey a log or message specific to the use,
as determined by the Zoning Administrator, are not considered SIGNS.
Definitions of particular types of signs are included in §
152.235 .
      STORAGE SHED. An accessory building used for storing garden and lawn
equipment and other items associated with the dwelling or other principal
building on the lot.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there be no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the next ceiling above it. A basement
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement when one- half
or more of its height is above grade level.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three feet above the
top floor level, and in which space not more than 60% of the floor area is
finished off for use. A HALF STORY may be used for occupancy only in
conjunction with and by the occupants of the floor immediately below.
      STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street,
highway, freeway or roadway purposes or subject to any public easement
therefrom.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts, ball
diamonds, bleachers of any kind, fences and freestanding walls.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition, or replacement of the
supporting members of a building or structure.
      TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT. A compact, mixed-use neighborhood
where residential, commercial and civic buildings are within close proximity to
each other; with interconnected circulation and open space systems; and with
careful attention to the design, layout, and relationships between different
land uses.
      TRAILER CAMP. Any lot or parcel of land where trailer spaces are rented,
leased or offered for rent or lease for one or more trailers for recreational
purposes.
      TRAILER COACH and MOTOR HOME. A vehicle with self-contained motor power
used or adaptable for living, sleeping, business or storage purposes, having no
foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses or skirting, which
does not meet building requirements and has been or reasonably may be equipped
with wheels or other devices for transporting the vehicle from place to place.
The term TRAILER COACH or MOTOR HOME shall include CAMP CAR and HOUSE CAR. A
permanent foundation shall not change its character unless the entire structure
is erected in accordance with prevailing village laws.
      TRAILER HOME or MOBILE HOME. See MOBILE HOME.
      TRAVEL TRAILER, DEPENDENT. A travel trailer, as defined herein, which is
not equipped with self-contained kitchen, toilet, bath and shower facilities.
      TRAVEL TRAILER, INDEPENDENT. A travel trailer, as defined herein, which
is equipped with self-contained kitchen, toilet, bath and shower facilities.
      TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, trailers, tractors, and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading, which exceed 1½ tons in capacity.
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported up a highway, except devices moved exclusively by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A business engaged in the storage and sale of
goods to other firms for resale, which may involve significant movement and
storage of products or equipment.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot lines
and the main building shall be used.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the
side yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street
lines and the main building or any projections thereof other than the
projection of the usual steps, entrance-way, unenclosed balconies or open
porch.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between
the side lot lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear
lot lines, and the rear of the main building or any projections other than
steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots the rear yard
shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimensions. On both corner lots and interior lots the REAR YARD shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the
lot, and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line.
      YARD OR SETBACK. An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal
building or group of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level upward, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, and which
extends along a lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is
located.
      YARD OR SETBACK, FRONT. The area extending along the full length of the
front lot line between the side lot lines.
      YARD OR SETBACK, REAR. The area extending along the full length of the
rear lot line between the side lot lines.
      YARD OR SETBACK, SIDES. The area extending along side lot lines to the
rear yard line.
      ZONING LOT. A parcel of land with uniform zoning considered or treated as
a single unit. A ZONING LOT may or may not correspond with a lot of record.
   (B)   Words herein not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with
definitions contained in Webster’s Dictionary.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 107, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.009 FEE.
   For the purpose of obtaining the following documents, the following charges
shall be established:
Document Fee
Document           Fee
Zoning book        $20
Subdivision book   $20
Comprehensive plan $20
Zoning map         $10
Planning map       $20
Zoning permits     $20
                   $20 if village approval is obtained prior to display of
Sign permits       sign.
                   $50 if sign displayed prior to village approval.
 
   Note: This table is not intended as a comprehensive list of fees that may be
required under this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
ZONING DISTRICT GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.020 BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Zoning schedule. The zoning schedule (see Appendix) prescribes the
basic site, yard, bulk, usable open space and screening and landscaping
regulations that shall apply in the districts as indicated in the schedule.
These basic requirements are defined and supplemented by additional
requirements and exceptions prescribed in subsequent sections of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Other required provisions. All uses either permitted or by special use
permit, as provided for by this chapter, shall provide for:
      (1)   Off-street parking as prescribed in the respective subchapter of
this zoning code relating to off-street parking.
      (2)   Off-street loading as prescribed in the respective subchapter of
this zoning code relating to off-street loading;
      (3)   Erection or placing of no sign or outdoor advertising structure of
any character except as prescribed in the subchapter of this zoning code
relating to signs;
      (4)   Compliance with the design review provisions as prescribed in the
subchapter of this zoning code relating to design review;
      (5)   Compliance with the screening and buffering sections as provided
for by this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 200, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.021 SITE AREA AND DIMENSIONS: REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Measurement.
      (1)   On a site which is not rectangular or approximately rectangular in
shape, required yards shall be measured in the manner prescribed by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (2)   On a corridor access lot with an average width that exceeds its
average depth, the longer dimension may be considered the depth for purposes of
measuring front, side and rear yards.
   (B)   Exemption: nonconforming sites. A site having an area frontage, width
or depth less than the minimum prescribed for the district in which the site is
located, which is shown on a duly approved and recorded subdivision map, or for
which a deed or valid contract of sale was on record prior to the adoption of
this chapter or amendment thereto, and which had a legal area, frontage, width
and depth at the time that the subdivision map, deed or contract of sale was
recorded, may be used for any permitted use, but shall be subject to all other
regulations for the district in which the site is located.
   (C)   Yards: requirements and exceptions.
      (1)   (a)   Required yards adjacent to street rights-of-way shall be
measured as the horizontal distance from the property line of the site or
street line parallel thereto on the site.
         (b)   Where an official street right-of-way has been adopted by the
Village Board, site area and required yards shall be measured from the future
right-of-way line and no provision of this chapter shall be construed to permit
a structure or use to extend beyond such line.
         (c)   Where a site abuts on a street having only a portion of its
required width dedicated or reserved for street purposes, site area and
required yards shall be measured from a line drawn on the boundary of the
additional width required for street purposes abutting the site.
      (2)   In Residential Districts where the existing right-of-way is less
than 66 feet, building setback lines shall be a minimum of 63 feet from the
existing roadway’s centerline. An exception to this requirement shall be made
for those developments which are part of a conservation neighborhood design
area.
      (3)   In the General Commercial District where the existing right-of-way
is less than 66 feet, building setback lines shall be a minimum of 53 feet from
the existing roadway’s centerline.
      (4)   In the Retail Commercial District where the existing right-of-way
is less than 66 feet, building setback lines shall be a minimum of 33 feet from
the existing roadway’s centerline.
      (5)   On a reversed corner lot, the minimum rear yard may not be less
than the side yard prescribed in the zoning schedule, in the appendix to this
chapter, provided that the side yard adjoining the street shall not be less
than the required front yard on the adjoining key lot.
      (6)   Where the side or rear lot line of the site of a use other than a
residential use adjoins or is across a street from a Residential District, the
minimum side or rear yard adjoining or opposite the Residential District shall
be ten feet greater than the minimum yard prescribed in the zoning schedule, in
the appendix to this chapter.
      (7)   Architectural features, including projecting balconies, sills and
chimneys, cornices and eaves may extend into a required side yard or a space
between structures not more than 18 inches from the main structure and may
extend into a required front or rear yard not more than four feet from the main
structure, provided that no projection shall extend into a public utility
easement.
      (8)   Open, unenclosed, uncovered balconies, decks, landings, platforms,
porches, stairways and terraces, of which no part is more than four feet above
the grade of the ground and unenclosed, uncovered porches and decks with floors
not higher than eight inches above the grade shall not extend into a required
rear yard or into a required front or side yard or space between buildings more
than four feet, provided, however, that pedestrianways or walks at ground level
shall not be reduced below three feet in unobstructed width.
      (9)   Open, unenclosed, uncovered metal fire escapes may project into any
required yard or space between buildings not more than three feet, provided
that no project shall extend into a public utility easement.
      (10)   Fences, walls and hedges not over six feet in height; and walks,
driveways and retaining walls may occupy a required side or rear yard; and
fences, walls and hedges not over three feet in height may occupy front yards
unless provided for by a special use permit or by another part of this chapter.
   (D)   Vision clearance: corner lot. On a corner lot, no fence, wall, hedge
or other obstruction, except the natural grade of a site shall be allowed
within a triangular area formed by the street property lines
and a line connecting points on the street property lines equal to one-half the
right-of-way width measured from the street intersection.
   (E)   Width: corner lots. The minimum width of corner lots in a Residential
District shall be 10% greater than the minimum width for the district given in
the zoning schedule, in the appendix to this chapter.
   (F)   Depth adjoining freeway or railroad. No site rearing on a freeway or
railroad right-of-way shall have a depth of less than 130 feet.
   (G)   Irregular lots. All setbacks shall be determined by the village
according to principles as set forth for yard setbacks in this chapter after
having first been reviewed by the Village Planning Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals.
   (H)   Culs-de-sac. No parcel or tract of real estate where there is division
of land, subdivided, platted or replatted, shall contain more than two culs-de-
sac within each 40 acres of land. For every additional 20 acres which is part
of the original parcel, there may be an additional cul-de-sac. A cul-de-sac
that exists in more than one quarter-quarter section shall be deemed to be
located in the quarter-quarter section wherein most of the length of the cul-
de-sac is located. Under no circumstances shall there exist more than two culs-
de-sac per quarter-quarter section. All culs-de-sac must comply with the
requirements of the subdivision code of the village.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 201, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2010-06, passed 2-16-10)
§ 152.022 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Limits. All main structures may not exceed the height limits
prescribed in the zoning schedule (see the appendix to this chapter).
   (B)   Measurement. The height of a structure shall be measured vertically
from the average elevation of the natural grade of the ground covered by the
structure to the highest point of the structure or to the coping of a flat
roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height between eaves
and ridges for a hip, gable or gambrel roof.
   (C)   Exceptions. Towers, spires, cupolas, chimneys, penthouses, water
tanks, flagpoles, monuments, scenery lofts, radio and television aerials and
antennas, transmission towers, fire towers and similar structures and necessary
mechanical appurtenances covering not more than 10% of the ground area covered
by the structure may be erected to a height of not more than 100 feet or not
more than 25 feet above the height limits prescribed by the regulations for the
district in which the site is located, whichever is less. Utility poles and
towers shall not be subject to the height limits prescribed in the district
regulations.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 202, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.023 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Construction before principal structure is erected. No accessory
structure shall be erected prior to the construction of the principal structure
unless a special use permit as per the subchapter of this zoning code relating
to special uses is first obtained in each case.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   No accessory structure shall be located in a required front yard.
      (2)   In no case shall an accessory structure be located closer to a side
or rear lot line than the minimum distances prescribed in the zoning schedule (
Appendix 1).
      (3)   Overhanging eaves or gutters on an accessory building may project
no more than eight inches into the minimum required setbacks or yards specified
below.
      (4)   In all Residential Districts, or in any zoning district in which
the property is used primarily for residential purposes, a detached accessory
building shall not be located within 12 feet from the principal building on the
property. In all other districts, accessory buildings located closer than ten
feet from the principal building shall be required to comply with the same side
yard setbacks as required for the principal building in the zoning district in
which the property lies.
      (5)   Accessory buildings within ten feet of the principal building must
have a one-hour fire rating wall on the side nearest the residentially used
building, provided the accessory use is one defined in subsection (b), (d) or
(f) of the definitions of “accessory use” found in §
152.008.
   (C)   Height. Accessory structures shall not exceed the height limits
prescribed in the zoning schedule, in the appendix to this chapter.
   (D)   Special provisions and exceptions in residential districts.
      (1)   The total square footage of all detached accessory structures
located on a lot shall not exceed the square footage of the principal structure
and shall not occupy more than 10% of the lot area to a maximum of 900 square
feet of accessory structure space per residential lot.
      (2)   On a reverse corner lot, an accessory structure shall not be
located closer to the rear property line than the required side yard of the lot
adjoining the rear property line and not closer to the street than the required
front yard of the lot adjoining the rear property line.
      (3)   There shall be a maximum of one detached private garage on a
residential lot, plus a maximum of one additional accessory structure that is
not a detached private garage on that same lot.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 203, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.024 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   See §§
152.275 et seq.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 204, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.025 ANNEXED AND UNZONED TERRITORY.
   (A)   All territory which is annexed to the village or which is unzoned
through abandonment of a public street or railroad right-of-way shall be
classified in the Agricultural District.
   (B)   Within 60 days from the classification in the Agricultural District,
the Zoning Board shall make a study of the territory to determine in which
zoning district it should be classified in order to carry out the objectives of
the zoning code prescribed in §§
152.001 et seq. If the Zoning Board finds that a change of district is
required, it shall initiate the change as prescribed in the subchapter of this
zoning code relating to amendments. The owner of annexed property or the
authorized agent of the owner may file an application for a change in district
as prescribed in the subchapter of this zoning code relating to amendments.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 205, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.026 NUMBER OF DWELLINGS ON A ZONING LOT.
   (A)   In all districts except the PUD, RM, RM-C, and Agricultural Districts,
not more than one dwelling shall be permitted on a zoning lot or parcel.
   (B)   In the AG District, more than one dwelling shall be permitted on a
zoning lot, provided, that the site for each dwelling shall not be less than
five acres in area and shall have not less than 250 feet of frontage on a
public highway.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 206, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.027 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall control the
installation, alteration, repairs, enlargement and maintenance of all outdoor
swimming pools and artificial recreational ponds, whether pre-existing or
hereafter erected. The provisions of this section shall not apply to pools or
artificial recreational ponds having a depth capacity of less than two feet or
to ponds specifically designed and approved by the village for stormwater
management.
   (B)   Permits. No person shall proceed with any installation, alteration or
enlargement of an outdoor swimming pool or artificial recreational pond to
which this section is applicable without having first obtained a zoning permit.
   (C)   Location. No portion of an outdoor swimming pool, including pumps,
filters, and disinfection equipment, shall be located within the minimum yard
required in the zoning district in which the lot is located, as described in
Appendix 1 of this chapter.
   (D)   Fences, gates and stairs. Each outdoor swimming pool and artificial
recreational pond to which this section is applicable shall be completely
enclosed by a fence not less than four feet in height above the ground level
directly below, including the height of any portion of the pool wall above
ground level. Where gates are provided, they shall be at least the minimum
height required for the fence and shall be equipped with self-closing and self-
latching devices placed at the top of the gate. Fences and gates shall be
constructed of materials with the strength of not less than 11 gauge corrosion
resistant woven wire. Fence and gate posts shall be resistant to decay and
corrosion and shall be set in concrete bases. No stool, step of any stair, rung
of any ladder, or similar leverage device shall be within four feet of the top
of the fence or gate when the pool is not in active use.
   (E)   Purification. Circulation water and make-up water shall conform to
regulations controlling plumbing. All outdoor swimming pools shall be equipped
with facilities for completely emptying the pool. The rate of discharge shall
not exceed 200 gallons per minute. Equipment shall be provided for the
disinfection of all pool water, but may not include gaseous chlorination
systems. Disinfection equipment using other chlorine compounds shall have the
capacity to maintain a free chlorine residual of 0.5 parts per million.
   (F)   Electrical requirements.  All electrical installations provided for
and used in conjunction with any outdoor pool shall conform with regulations
controlling electrical supply and equipment, and shall be subject to approval
by the Winnebago County Electrical Inspector. No current carrying electrical
conductors shall be less than 15 feet from any pool. Metal fences, enclosures,
railings and pool walls shall be effectively grounded to prevent accidental
electrical charging.
   (G)   Lifelines. Each outdoor swimming pool having a depth capacity of four
feet or greater shall be equipped with not less than one throwing ring buoy.
Such buoy shall be not less than 15 inches in diameter and shall be attached to
a line which shall not be less than 3/16 inch thick and 1½ times the maximum
reach of the pool.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2024-21, passed 9-17-24)
**** AGRICULTURAL (AG) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.035 PURPOSES.
   (A)   To permit nonagricultural uses that require large land areas that will
not detract or adversely affect the normal agricultural pursuits of the rural
area.
   (B)   To give primary consideration to agricultural pursuits and secondary
consideration to large urban supporting uses.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 300, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.036 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 301, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.037 PERMITTED USES.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or land may be used,
and no building may be erected, converted, enlarged or structurally altered in
the AG District except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   One-family detached dwelling;
   (B)   All uses commonly classed as agricultural, horticultural or forestry,
including crop and tree farming, truck gardening, gardening, together with the
operation of any machinery or vehicles incident to the above uses; provided
that the permitted agricultural pursuits are conducted in accord with good
practice so as not to be deemed a nuisance;
   (C)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas when publicly-owned and
operated;
   (D)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes, not for human
habitation and not to exist after termination of project;
   (E)   Accessory uses as defined in §
152.008;
   (F)   Railroad right-of-way and trackage, but not including classification
yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities;
   (G)   The sale of products produced on the premises from temporary stands or
from existing farm buildings;
   (H)   Golf courses, regulation size, but not including “Par 3” golf courses,
commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses, provided that
no clubhouse or accessory building shall be located nearer than 200 feet to any
dwelling;
   (I)   Schools: Public, denominational or private; elementary and high,
including playgrounds and athletic fields auxiliary thereto;
   (J)   Churches, rectories and parish houses;
   (K)   Public service uses:
      (1)   Filtration plan, pumping station and water reservoir;
      (2)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Police and fire station;
      (4)   Telephone exchange;
      (5)   Electric and gas substations and booster stations;
      (6)   Other governmental uses.
   (L)   Wind operated energy devices, for site service only, provided the lot
area has a minimum of 2½ acres.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 302, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.038 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
the provisions of the schedule of special uses in residential districts of this
zoning code (see Appendix):
   (A)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (B)   Feed, seed and farm implements but excluding sales of farm implements
used for tillage and harvesting of crops;
   (C)   Outdoor theaters and indoor theaters which are an integral part of an
outdoor theater complex;
   (D)   Private and public recreational facilities and commercial
entertainment and tourist establishments, museums, dining and dancing
establishments, archery clubs, gun clubs, “Par 3” golf courses, automobile,
cycle, snowmobile race tracks or courses, commercial stables and riding trails,
commercial fishing ponds or lakes and/or similar tourist facilities;
   (E)   Extraction and removal of sand, gravel, topsoil or other aggregate,
but not including equipment, buildings or structures for screening, mixing,
washing or storage, except as may be specifically authorized for a limited
period of time;
   (F)   Radio and television towers and accessory facilities;
   (G)   Airports, landing strips and heliports;
   (H)   Veterinary office and hospital; medical or dental office or clinic;
   (I)   Manufacturing of asphalt and asphalt products and/or concrete and
concrete products, provided that the same is performed within the excavated
portion of the same site where gravel or crushed stone aggregate is extracted
therefrom;
   (J)   Institutions for the rehabilitation, education or training of
handicapped persons;
   (K)   Day nursery schools;
   (L)   Bed and breakfast;
   (M)   Use of buildings previously allowed under §
152.037(J) and (K) provided that:
      (1)   The building and premises will be in compliance with all the
applicable state and county building, health and fire regulations;
      (2)   There is no enlargement or expansion of the buildings; and
      (3)   There is no alteration of the external appearance of the premises
unless approved in accordance with the procedures of the special use section of
this zoning code.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 303, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.039 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every principal permitted use in this subchapter shall be located on a
tract of land having an area of not less than five acres and a width at the
established building line of not less than 250 feet. This requirement shall not
apply to railroad right-of-way.
   (B)   The lot size requirements set forth herein may be reduced by special
use permit.
   (C)   Every special use authorized in the AG District shall be located on a
tract of land the minimum size of which shall be specified in the special use
permit.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 304, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.040 YARDS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless it is in compliance with the
distances specifically enumerated within this subchapter for specific uses, or
established when a special use permit is approved as follows:
   (A)   Front. One-half the existing right-of-way when right-of-way has been
established by adopted comprehensive plans, not to exceed 60 feet or be less
than 30 feet.
   (B)   Side.
      (1)   Corner lot: Same as front yard.
      (2)   Interior lot: 12 feet.
   (C)   Rear. Seventy-five feet.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 305, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
URBAN TRANSITIONAL (UT) DISTRICTS
§ 152.050 PURPOSES.
   (A)   To permit the conduct of certain agricultural pursuits on land that
may be or already have been annexed to the village.
   (B)   To prevent premature urban development of certain lands which
eventually will be appropriate for urban use, until the installation of
streets, utilities and community facilities make orderly development possible.
   (C)   To ensure adequate light, air and privacy for each dwelling unit, and
to provide adequate separation between dwelling units and facilities for
housing animals.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 400, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.051 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 401, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.052 PERMITTED USES.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or land may be used,
and no building may be erected, converted, enlarged or structurally altered in
the UT District except for one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   All uses commonly classed as agricultural, horticultural or forestry,
including crop and tree farming, truck gardening, gardening, together with the
operation of any machinery or vehicles incident to the above uses; provided
that the permitted agricultural pursuits are conducted in accord with good
practice so as not to be deemed a nuisance;
   (B)   Home occupations, as defined in this chapter;
   (C)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas when publicly-owned and
operated;
   (D)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (E)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish houses, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (F)   Golf courses, regulation size, but not including “Par 3” golf courses,
commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses, provided that
no clubhouse or accessory building shall be located nearer than 200 feet to any
dwelling;
   (G)   A single one-family detached dwelling.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 402, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2010-16, passed 8-17-10)
§ 152.053 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
the provisions of the special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Wholesale nursery operations;
   (B)   Animal husbandry and livestock farming, other than hog farms,
providing the zoning lot is not less than five acres in area and subject to the
following limitations:
      (1)   One horse, mule, cow or steer, regardless of age, for every acre;
      (2)   Two goats, sheep or miniature pony regardless of age, for every
acre;
      (3)   Turkey farming, poultry farming, small animal and fowl specialty
farms, including but not limited to: chinchillas, rabbits, pigeons, ducks,
geese, aviaries provided they are maintained in suitably designed structures
and further provided such uses when approved are continually conducted in
accordance with good practice as not to be deemed a nuisance;
      (4)   The keeping of four or more dogs or cats on the premises in kennel
facilities provided the animals are maintained in soundproof structures between
the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Public service uses:
      (1)   Filtration plant, pumping station and water reservoir;
      (2)   Sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Police and fire station;
      (4)   Telephone exchange;
      (5)   Electric and gas substations and booster stations;
      (6)   Other governmental uses.
   (D)   Accessory structures and uses located on the same site with a
permitted use including barns, stables, coops, tank houses, storage tanks,
windmills, silos, other farm outbuildings, private garages and carports,
storehouses, garden structures, greenhouses, recreation rooms and hobby shops,
and storage of petroleum products for the use of persons residing on the site;
   (E)   Bed and breakfast;
   (F)   Museums.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 403, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2010-16, passed 8-17-10)
§ 152.054 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every principal permitted use in this section shall be located on a
tract of land having an area of not less than five acres and a width at the
established building line of not less than 250 feet.
   (B)   Every special use permitted in the UT District shall be located on a
tract of land the minimum size of which shall be specified at the time a
special use permit is authorized.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 404, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.055 YARD AREAS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:
   (A)   Front yard. A front yard equal to at least one-half the right-of-way
of the street on which the lot fronts. However, in no case shall the front yard
be less than 30 feet nor more than 60 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than
25 feet, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the minimum width shall be
increased to one-half the right-of-way of the adjoining street with a maximum
of 60 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 75 feet.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 405, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** RURAL ESTATES (RE) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.065 PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the RE District is included in the zoning code to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living at a
reasonable range of population densities consistent with sound standards of
public health and safety;
   (B)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling;
   (C)   To protect one-family dwellings from the congestion and lack of
privacy associated with multi- family dwellings;
   (D)   To provide space for semi-public facilities needed to complement urban
residential areas and for institutions that require a residential environment;
   (E)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the land around them;
   (F)   To provide necessary space for off-street parking of automobiles and,
where appropriate, for off-street loading of trucks;
   (G)   To protect residential properties from noise, illumination,
unsightliness, odors, dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare and other
objectionable influences;
   (H)   To protect residential properties from fire, explosion, noxious fumes
and other hazards;
   (I)   To provide for single-family structures in areas where no public
sanitary sewer and/or water facilities are provided or planned for provision
with the immediate future while attempting to protect ground water and other
aspects of the environment.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 500, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.066 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the subchapters herein concerning off-street parking, off-street loading,
signs, home occupations, nonconforming buildings and uses and any other
applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 501, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.067 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the RE District:
   (A)   One-family dwelling units;
   (B)   Home occupations in accord with the regulations prescribed in the home
occupations subchapter of this zoning code;
   (C)   An accessory structure located on the same site with a permitted use
including private garages and carports, one guest house or accessory living
quarters without a kitchen, storehouses, garden structures, greenhouses,
recreation rooms and swimming pools;
   (D)   Raising of fruit and nut trees, vegetables and horticultural
specialties;
   (E)   Swimming pools used solely by persons resident on the site and their
guests, provided that no swimming pool or accessory mechanical equipment shall
be located in a required front yard or less than 12 feet from a property line.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 502, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.068 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the RE District upon the
granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish homes, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (B)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes, (not including those
hospitals, sanitariums or nursing homes for mental, alcohol dependency or
chemical dependency cases);
   (D)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (E)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (F)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (G)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
equipment buildings and installations, water storage tanks found by the Village
Board of Trustees to be necessary for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (H)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special case;
   (I)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (J)   Bed and breakfast;
   (K)   Mobile home park;
   (L)   Museum.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 503, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.069 LOT SIZE.
   (A)   Every principal permitted use in this section shall be located on a
tract of land having an area of not less than 2½ acres and a width at the
established building line of not less than 200 feet.
   (B)   Every special use permitted in the RE District shall be located on a
tract of land the minimum size of which shall be specified at the time a
special use permit is authorized.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 504, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.070 YARD AREAS.
   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:
   (A)   Front yard. A front yard equal to at least one-half the right-of-way
of the street on which the lot fronts. However, in no case shall the front yard
be less than 30 feet nor more than 60 feet.
   (B)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less than
12 feet, except where a side yard adjoins a street, the minimum width shall be
increased to one-half the right-of-way of the adjoining street with a maximum
of 60 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 75 feet.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 505, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** SINGLE-FAMILY (R1) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.080 PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the R1 District is included in the zoning code to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living at a
reasonable range of population densities consistent with sound standards of
public health and safety;
   (B)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling;
   (C)   To protect one-family dwellings from the congestion and lack of
privacy associated with multi- family dwellings;
   (D)   To provide space for semi-public facilities needed to complement urban
residential areas and for institutions that require a residential environment;
   (E)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the land around them;
   (F)   To provide necessary space for off-street parking of automobiles and,
where appropriate, for off-street loading of trucks;
   (G)   To protect residential properties from noise, illumination,
unsightliness, odors, dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare and other
objectionable influences;
   (H)   To protect residential properties from fire, explosion, noxious fumes
and other hazards;
   (I)   To provide by special use permit for single-family structures in areas
where no public sanitary sewer and/or water facilities are provided or planned
for provision with the immediate future while attempting to protect ground
water and other aspects of the environment.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 600, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.081 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the subchapters herein concerning off-street parking, off-street loading,
signs, home occupations, nonconforming buildings and uses and any other
applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 601, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.082 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the R1 District:
   (A)   One-family dwelling units;
   (B)   Home occupations in accord with the regulations prescribed in the home
occupations subchapter of this zoning code;
   (C)   An accessory structure located on the same site with a permitted use
including private garages and carports, one guest house or accessory living
quarters without a kitchen, storehouses, garden structures, greenhouses,
recreation rooms and swimming pools;
   (D)   Raising of fruit and nut trees, vegetables and horticultural
specialties;
   (E)   Swimming pools used solely by persons resident on the site and their
guests, provided that no swimming pool or accessory mechanical equipment shall
be located in a required front yard or less than 12 feet from a property line.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 602, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.083 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the R1 District upon the
granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish homes, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (B)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes, not including hospitals,
sanitariums or nursing homes for mental, alcohol dependency or chemical
dependency cases;
   (D)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (E)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (F)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (G)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
equipment buildings and installations, water storage tanks found by the Village
Board of Trustees to be necessary for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (H)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special use;
   (I)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (J)   Bed and breakfast;
   (K)   Museum.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 603, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R2) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.100 PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the R2 District is included in the zoning code to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living in a variety
of types of dwellings at a reasonable range of densities consistent with sound
standards of public health and safety;
   (B)   To preserve as many of the desirable characteristics of the Single-
Family Residential District, but still permitting higher population densities;
   (C)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling unit;
   (D)   To provide space for semi-public facilities needed to complement urban
residential areas and space for institutions that require a residential
environment;
   (E)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the land around them;
   (F)   To provide necessary space for off-street parking of automobiles and,
where appropriate, for off-street loading of trucks;
   (G)   To protect residential properties from noise, illumination,
unsightliness, odors, dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare and other
objectionable influences;
   (H)   To protect residential properties from fire, explosion, noxious fumes
and other hazards.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 700, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.101 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the subchapters herein concerning off-street parking, off-street loading,
signs, home occupations, nonconforming buildings and uses and any other
applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
   (D)   Design review and approval must be obtained as specified in §
152.260 prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 701, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.102 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the R2 District:
   (A)   One-family dwelling units;
   (B)   Two-family dwelling units;
   (C)   Home occupations in accord with the regulations prescribed in the home
occupations subchapter of this zoning code;
   (D)   An accessory structure located on the same site with a permitted use
including private garages and carports, one guest house or accessory living
quarters without a kitchen, storehouses, garden structures, greenhouses,
recreation rooms and swimming pools;
   (E)   Swimming pools used solely by persons resident on the site and their
guests, provided that no swimming pool or accessory mechanical equipment shall
be located in a required front yard or less than 12 feet from a property line.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 702, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.103 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the R2 District upon the
granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Lodging houses in which not more than six paying guests may be lodged
or boarded;
   (B)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish houses, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (C)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (D)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes, (not including those
hospitals, sanitariums or nursing homes for mental, alcohol dependency or
chemical dependency cases);
   (E)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (F)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (G)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (H)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
power stations, equipment buildings and installations, drainageways and
structures, storage tanks found by the Village Board of Trustees to be
necessary for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (I)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special use;
   (J)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (K)   Swimming pools used solely by persons resident on the site and their
guests, provided that no swimming pool or accessory mechanical equipment shall
be located in a required front yard or less than 12 feet from a property line;
   (L)   Off-street parking areas, provided there is a need for this facility
in the interest of public necessity and convenience, and that no appropriate
site is available in nearby business or industrial districts;
   (M)   Museum.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 703, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (RM) DISTRICTS
§ 152.115 PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the RM District is included in the zoning code to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living in a variety
of types of dwellings at a reasonable range of densities consistent with sound
standards of public health and safety;
   (B)   To preserve as many of the desirable characteristics of the Single-
Family Residential District, but still permitting higher population densities;
   (C)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling unit;
   (D)   To provide space for semi-public facilities needed to complement urban
residential areas and space for institutions that require a residential
environment;
   (E)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the land around them;
   (F)   To provide necessary space for off-street parking of automobiles and,
where appropriate, for off-street loading of trucks;
   (G)   To protect residential properties from noise, illumination,
unsightliness, odors, dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare and other
objectionable influences;
   (H)   To protect residential properties from fire, explosion, noxious fumes
and other hazards.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 800, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.116 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the dimensional regulations prescribed in
§§
152.020 et seq. and Appendix 1 of this chapter.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the subchapters herein concerning off-street parking, off-street loading,
signs, landscaping, lighting, building design, home occupations, nonconforming
buildings and uses and any other applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 801, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.117 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the RM District:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings with up to eight units per building and with a
maximum gross density of up to eight dwelling units per acre;
   (D)   Home occupations in accord with the regulations prescribed in the home
occupations subchapter of this zoning code;
   (E)   An accessory structure located on the same site with a permitted use
including private garages and carports, storehouses, garden structures,
greenhouses, recreation rooms and swimming pools.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 802, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.118 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the RM District upon the
granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings with nine to 24 dwelling units per building
and/or with a gross density of more than eight but less than or equal to 16
units per acre, provided that the project includes the following
characteristics:
      (1)   All design requirements in §
152.261 shall be met;
      (2)   Not less than 50% of the front facade of the principal building(s)
shall be covered with brick or another decorative material if approved by the
village;
      (3)   Not fewer than one parking space per unit shall be provided within
a fully enclosed garage, either at grade or sub-grade;
      (4)   Whether attached or detached from the principal building, garages
shall not be the dominant visual element from public rights-of-way. Where large
garages are necessary, their facades shall be broken up with foundation
landscaping, varied facade setbacks, and/or recessed garage doors;
      (5)   Surface parking lots shall be located so they are not the dominant
visual element, screened from public view, and broken up with landscape islands
or peninsulas;
      (6)   Pedestrian access shall be provided through sidewalks and private
walkway connections between public sidewalks, parking areas, and the principal
building(s);
      (7)   All refuse containers shall be located indoors or screened from
public view through an opaque fence or wall;
      (8)   No building with greater than 24 dwelling units and no project with
a gross density greater than 16 units per acre shall be permitted within the RM
district.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishments meeting the requirements of §
152.151(G) and boarding houses;
   (C)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish houses, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (D)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (E)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes, not including hospitals,
sanitariums or nursing homes for mental, alcohol dependency or chemical
dependency cases;
   (F)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (G)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (H)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (I)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
power stations, equipment buildings and installations, drainageways and
structures, storage tanks found by the Village Board of Trustees to be
necessary for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (J)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special use;
   (K)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (L)   Off-street parking areas, provided there is a need for this facility
in the interest of public necessity and convenience, and that no appropriate
site is available in nearby business or industrial districts;
   (M)   Museum.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 803, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.119 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For all lands rezoned or zoned upon annexation to RM following January
1, 2004, the approval process, required submittals, review criteria,
requirement to build in accordance with approved plans, and subsequent plan
amendment process shall be identical to similar requirements for Planned Unit
Development projects under §
152.200. This approval process must be completed prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   (B)   For all lands already zoned RM as of January 1, 2004, design review
and approval must be obtained as specified in §
152.260 prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONDO (RM-C) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.130 PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the RM-C Condo District is included in the zoning code to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living in a variety
of types of dwellings at a reasonable range of densities consistent with sound
standards of public health and safety;
   (B)   To preserve many of the desirable characteristics of the Single-Family
Residential District, but still permitting higher population densities;
   (C)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling unit;
   (D)   To provide space for semi-public facilities needed to complement urban
residential areas and space for institutions that require a residential
environment;
   (E)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the land around them;
   (F)   To provide necessary space for off-street parking of automobiles and,
where appropriate, for off-street loading of trucks;
   (G)   To protect residential properties from noise, illumination,
unsightliness, odors, dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, glare and other
objectionable influences;
   (H)   To protect residential properties from fire, explosion, noxious fumes
and other hazards;
   (I)   To permit and foster condominium developments in accord with the
provisions of the “Condominium Property Act,” effective June 1963, as amended,
State of Illinois;
   (J)   To provide an administrative procedure and standards to facilitate and
utilize imaginative design and subdivision technology which may necessitate
variation to traditional yards, setbacks, lot shapes and sizes.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.131 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses for the RM-C Condo District shall comply with the dimensional
regulations prescribed in the RM District in §§
152.020 et seq. and Appendix 1 of this chapter.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the subchapters herein concerning off-street parking, off-street loading,
signs, landscaping, lighting, building design, home occupations, nonconforming
buildings and uses and any other applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment or material shall
be employed which is found by the Village Board of Trustees to be objectionable
to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property located
in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes, dust, smoke,
cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration, illumination,
glare, unsightliness or traffic or to involve any hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.132 DEFINITION OF RM-C CONDO.
   A development including all land within the project boundaries to be
constructed by a single owner or group of owners acting jointly; located on a
lot of record; involving a related group of residential uses, planned as an
entity and, therefore, acceptable for development and regulation as one complex
land use unit, rather than as a mere aggregation of individual buildings
located on separate unrelated lots.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.133 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the RM-C Condo District:
   (A)   Single-family condo dwellings;
   (B)   Two-family condo dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family condo dwellings with up to eight units per building or
with a maximum gross density of up to eight dwelling units per acre;
   (D)   Home occupations in accord with the regulations prescribed in the home
occupations subchapter of this zoning code;
   (E)   An accessory structure located on the same site with a permitted use
including private garages and carports, storehouses, garden structures,
greenhouses, recreation rooms and swimming pools;
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or land may be
used, and no building may be erected, converted, enlarged or structurally
altered in a RM-C Condo District except for those permitted in §
152.117 and §
152.118 for the RM Multiple-Family Residential District.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.134 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the RM-C Condo District upon
the granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Multi-family condo dwellings with nine or more dwelling units per
building and/or with a gross density of more than eight units per acre,
provided that the project includes the following characteristics:
      (1)   All design requirements in §
152.261 shall be met;
      (2)   Not less than 50% of the front facade of the principal building(s)
shall be covered with brick, or with another decorative material if approved by
the village;
      (3)   Not fewer than one parking space per unit shall be provided within
a fully enclosed garage, either at grade or sub-grade;
      (4)   Whether attached or detached from the principal building, garages
shall not be the dominant visual element from public rights-of-way. Where large
garages are necessary, their facades shall be broken up with foundation
landscaping, varied facade setbacks, and/or recessed garage doors.
      (5)   Surface parking lots shall be located so they are not the dominant
visual element, screened from public view, and broken up with landscape islands
or peninsulas;
      (6)   Pedestrian access shall be provided through sidewalks and private
walkway connections between public sidewalks, parking areas, and the principal
building(s);
      (7)   All refuse containers shall be located indoors or screened from
public view through an opaque fence or wall.
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishments meeting the requirements of §
152.151(G);
   (C)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish houses, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (D)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (E)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (F)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (G)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (H)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
power stations, equipment buildings and installations, drainageways and
structures, storage tanks found by the Board of Trustees to be necessary for
the public health, safety or welfare;
   (I)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special use;
   (J)   Off-street parking areas, provided there is a need for this facility
in the interest of public necessity and convenience, and that no appropriate
site is available in nearby business or industrial districts.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.135 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For all lands rezoned or zoned upon annexation to RM-C Condo following
October 1, 2004, the approval process, required submittals, review criteria,
requirement to build in accordance with approved plans, and subsequent plan
amendment process shall be identical to similar requirements for planned unit
development projects under §
152.200. This approval process must be completed prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   (B)   For all lands already zoned RM-C Condo as of January 1, 2004, design
review and approval must be obtained as specified in §
152.255 prior to issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.136 RECORDED PLAT REQUIRED.
   A plat of subdivision shall be recorded. Such plat will show building lines,
common land, streets, easements and other applicable features required by the
subdivision code. All applicable procedures, standards and requirements of the
subdivision code shall be followed except those in conflict with this section.
No building permits shall be issued until after final approval of the RM-
C Condo Development and recording of the subdivision plat as finally approved
by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.137 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION.
   Before final approval of a RM-C Condo Development, the Board of Appeals, on
recommendation of the Planning Commission or on its own initiative, may
recommend and the Village Board of Trustees may require a contract with
safeguards satisfactory to the Village Attorney guaranteeing completion of the
RM-C Condo Development in a period specified by the Zoning Board of Appeals,
but which period shall not exceed five years unless extended by the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.138 REVOCATION.
   A RM-C Condo Development granted subject to a condition or conditions shall
be temporarily revoked by the Village Board of Trustees if the condition or
conditions are not complied with. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a
public hearing within 45 days in accord with the regulation, general provision
or condition not being complied with, may recommend permanent revocation of the
RM-C Condo Development or the taking of such action as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the regulation, general provision or condition. In any
case when construction of a RM-C Condo Development has not commenced within one
year after the date of approval, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall review said
RM-C Condo Development and recommend to the Village Board of Trustees whether
or not the RM-C Condo Development should be revoked or continued.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.139 NEW APPLICATION.
   No application for a RM-C Condo Development which has been denied wholly or
in part by the Village Board of Trustees shall be resubmitted for a period of
one year from the date of said denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.140 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be permitted in the RM-C Condo District upon
the granting of a special use permit, in accordance with the provisions of the
special use subchapter of this zoning code:
   (A)   Lodging houses in which not more than six paying guests may be lodged
or boarded;
   (B)   Churches, convents, monasteries, parish houses, parsonages and other
religious institutions;
   (C)   Golf courses, public parks and playgrounds;
   (D)   Hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes, not including hospitals,
sanitariums or nursing homes for mental, alcohol dependency or chemical
dependency cases;
   (E)   Nursery schools and child day care centers;
   (F)   Private recreation parks and swim clubs;
   (G)   Public and parochial schools and colleges;
   (H)   Public utility, public facility and public services; pumping stations,
power stations, equipment buildings and installations, drainageways and
structures, storage tanks found by the Village Board of Trustees to be
necessary for the public health, safety or welfare;
   (I)   Accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site as a
special use;
   (J)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith, if not located within 500 feet of any dwelling;
   (K)   Off-street parking areas, provided there is a need for this facility
in the interest of public necessity and convenience, and that no appropriate
site is available in nearby business or industrial districts;
   (L)   One-family dwelling units;
   (M)   Museum.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** COMMERCIAL (C) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.150 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Purposes generally. In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the C Districts included in the village are CR Central Retail and
Commercial District, CG General Commercial District, CH Highway Commercial
District, and CN Neighborhood Commercial District and are included in the
zoning code to achieve the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for retail stores, offices,
service establishments, amusement establishments and wholesale businesses,
offering commodities and services required by residents of the village and its
surrounding market area;
      (2)   To provide opportunities for retail stores, offices, service
establishments, amusement establishments and wholesale businesses to
concentrate for the convenience of the public and in mutually beneficial
relationship to each other;
      (3)   To provide space for housing, community facilities and institutions
that may be located in commercial areas;
      (4)   To provide adequate space to meet the needs of modern commercial
development, including off-street parking and truck loading areas;
      (5)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the amount of land around them;
      (6)   To protect commercial properties from noise, odor, dust, dirt,
smoke, vibration, heat, glare, heavy truck traffic and other objectionable
influences incidental to industrial uses;
      (7)   To protect commercial properties from fire, explosion, noxious
fumes and other hazards.
   (B)   Special purposes of CR Central Retail and Commercial District.
      (1)   To encourage consolidation and maximize the efficiency of the
village’s most intensively developed retail district by limiting or prohibiting
uses that break the continuity of commercial frontage or are incompatible with
an attractive pedestrian shopping area;
      (2)   To facilitate the future establishment of off-street parking
facilities by limiting or prohibiting in-vehicle sales and service uses that
would not benefit substantially from public off-street parking facilities;
      (3)   To promote retention of the historic character of Rockton’s
downtown, revitalization, and an appropriate mix of uses to serve both
residents and visitors.
   (C)   Special purposes of CG General Commercial District.
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for commercial uses having
features that are incompatible with the purposes of the other commercial
districts;
      (2)   To provide for the appropriate location of certain light industries
as special uses.
   (D)   Special purposes of CH Highway Commercial District.
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for establishments catering
to highway travelers;
      (2)   To enhance the appearance of the village and to protect commercial
patrons from nuisances by limiting or prohibiting certain commercial uses that
often are unsightly or have nuisance features;
      (3)   To provide appropriately located areas for establishments that
generally require large sites and do not require close proximity to other
retail uses;
      (4)   To facilitate the protection of natural scenic and recreational
resources while providing for their use as tourist and recreation-oriented
facilities;
      (5)   To protect recreational commercial areas from nuisances by limiting
or prohibiting certain commercial and other land uses that are often unsightly
or have nuisance features;
      (6)   To facilitate the development of tourist-oriented recreational
facilities requiring a significant land area.
   (E)   Special purposes of the CN Neighborhood Commercial District.
      (1)   To permit small-scale commercial development compatible with the
desired neighborhood character and adjacent residential areas, outside of the
historic downtown area;
      (2)   To limit uses that are generally not compatible with a neighborhood
environment.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 900, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.151 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Dimensional standards. All uses shall comply with the regulations
prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq. and Appendix 1 of this chapter.
   (B)   Design standards. All uses shall comply with the appropriate
regulations prescribed in the respective subchapter of this zoning code
relating to off-street parking; off-street loading; signs; landscaping;
lighting; building design; design review; nonconforming buildings and uses; and
any other applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   Standards applicable in CR and CN Districts. In the CR and CN
Districts, all businesses, services and processes shall be conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed structure, except for off- street parking and
loading areas, exhibits of goods sold or manufactured on the premises not
exceeding 100 square feet in area, in-vehicle sales and service operations in
the CN District, outdoor dining areas, nurseries, garden shops, Christmas tree
sales lots, bus depots and utility substations and equipment installations.
   (D)   Standards applicable in CR District. In the CR Central Retail and
Commercial District, nonresidential construction, including new structures,
building additions, building alterations, and restoration or rehabilitation
shall conform with the following requirements:
      (1)   The setback of buildings from street-yard and side-yard property
lines shall be compatible with existing buildings in the immediate area;
      (2)   The height of buildings shall be compatible with existing buildings
in the immediate area. In no instance shall buildings be more than one story
taller or shorter than the height of a building of similar use on one of the
immediately adjoining properties (see figure);
      (3)   The mass of buildings shall be compatible with existing buildings
in the immediate area. The characteristic proportion (relationship between
facade height and width) of the general design theme shall be maintained.
Building mass for structures with a facade area exceeding 5,000 square feet
shall be disguised through the use of facade articulations, or through the use
of exterior treatments which give the impression of directly adjoining
individual buildings;
      (4)   Selected building materials shall be compatible with predominant
building materials in the downtown prior to 1950. In addition, the following
material requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Stone or brick facing should be of even coloration and
consistent size. Cinder block, concrete block, concrete slab, or concrete panel
shall not be permitted;
         (b)   Wood or thin board textured vinyl or textured metal clapboard
siding may be appropriate, particularly if the proposed non-masonry exterior
conforms to the historic materials used on the building or surround buildings.
Asphalt siding shingles shall not be permitted;
         (c)   Clear or slightly tinted glass shall be used. Mirrored glass,
smoked glass, or heavily tinted glass shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Awning size, color and placement shall complement the architectural
character of the building. Soft, weather-treated canvas or vinyl materials
which allow for flexible or fixed installation shall be used. Aluminum or
suspended metal canopies shall be prohibited. Signage applied to awnings shall
be simple and durable;
      (6)   Exterior colors for structures and appurtenances, including
fixtures and signs, shall be compatible and harmonious with those of existing
buildings in the immediate area which conform to the historic character of the
area. Specifically, throughout the district:
         (a)   Primary (red, blue, green and yellow) colors, black, and
fluorescent, “day glow,” and/or neon colors shall not be permitted as main
building colors. Where such colors constitute a component of a standardized
corporate theme or identity, muted versions of such colors shall be used;
         (b)   High gloss paints, lacquers, varnishes, or other shiny non-
glazing surfaces shall not be used;
         (c)   Aside from permitted signage, color combination schemes shall be
limited to no more than three different colors for the principal building.
Varying shades, tints, or intensities of a color shall count as a different
color for this purpose;
         (d)   Color schemes shall be used consistently throughout the
property, including on both the upper and lower portions of buildings, and on
all facades of a building or structure.
      (7)   On-site landscaping is not required within the CR District, except
to provide vegetated ground cover for pervious (non-paved or roofed) surfaces,
and to provide screening and shading of on- site paved areas (see §§
152.276 and
152.278);
      (8)   Signage shall be as regulated in §
152.235;
      (9)   On-site exterior lighting shall comply with §
152.296(G) and be compatible and harmonious with the historic character of the
area. The design, color, height, location and light quality of on-site lighting
shall be compatible with the public lighting fixtures in the district;
         (10)   All other design standards in §
152.261 shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for in-vehicle sales and service operations. The following
design standards shall be applicable for in-vehicle sales and service
operations, in districts where they are allowed as a special use. In-vehicle
sales and service land uses include all principal or accessory land uses which
perform sales and/or services to persons in vehicles, or to vehicles which may
or may not be occupied at the time of such activity, except for automobile
repair services. Examples of such land uses include drive-in, drive- up and
drive-through facilities; gas stations; and car washes. For the purposes of
this chapter, principal uses engaged in the sales of motor vehicles or boats
shall not be considered in-vehicle sales and service operations. In-vehicle
sales and service operations often have traffic volumes which exhibit their
highest levels concurrent with peak traffic flows on adjacent roads. Because of
their potential impact on community character, aesthetics, noise, parking, and
traffic, special design regulations for such uses are appropriate, where such
uses may be allowed as special uses. The following detailed standards must be
satisfied before a special use permit may be granted for such uses:
      (1)   Clearly marked pedestrian walkways and crosswalks shall be provided
to the site and to each walk-in customer building access;
      (2)   Any drive-through facility shall be designed to not impede or
impair vehicular and pedestrian movement and safety. This generally requires
unimpeded stacking space for a minimum of four vehicles behind all stations
where transactions occur;
      (3)   The setback of any overhead canopy, menu board, or similar
structure shall be a minimum of ten feet from all street right-of-way lines, 20
feet from all residentially-zoned property lines, and ten feet from all other
property lines;
      (4)   The total height of any overhead canopy or similar structure shall
not exceed 20 feet as measured to highest part of structure, unless taller
structures are required to meet community character desires of the village;
      (5)   Any text or logo identifying the business conducted on the site
which is larger than one square foot per side on an overhead canopy, menu
board, or other accessory structure shall be considered a freestanding sign
subject to regulation under §
152.235;
      (6)   All vehicular areas of the facility shall provide a surface paved
with concrete or bituminous material designed to meet the requirements of a
four-ton axle load;
      (7)   Facility shall provide a landscaped buffer yard along all property
borders abutting a residentially zoned or used property per the requirements of
§
152.278;
      (8)   Interior curbs shall be used to separate driving areas from
exterior fixtures such as fuel pumps, vacuums, menu boards, canopy supports and
landscaped islands. Said curbs shall be a minimum of six inches high and be of
a non-mountable design;
      (9)   Access to the property from the public street network shall be
approved by the Village Engineer. To assure the proper number, location, and
design of vehicular access points, the Village Engineer may require that the
applicant supply a traffic study from a qualified professional before the
special use permit is granted.
   (F)   Standards for retail and commercial service buildings in excess of
40,000 square feet of area.  The following requirements are applicable to all
new retail and commercial service buildings in excess of 40,000 gross square
feet, and to all additions to existing retail and commercial service buildings,
built either before or after the adoption of this section, which brings the
total building size to over 40,000. The following standards are intended to
ensure that large retail and commercial service buildings, and the sites they
occupy, are properly located and compatible with the surrounding area and
community character of the village. Such projects shall also be subject to the
non-residential building design standards found in §
152.261.
      (1)   Building materials. Building materials shall be unified throughout
the building, and shall complement other buildings in the vicinity. Exterior
building materials shall be of high and comparable aesthetic quality on all
sides. Building materials such as glass, brick, decorative concrete block, or
stucco shall be used. Decorative architectural metal with concealed fasteners
may be approved if sensitively incorporated into the overall design of the
building.
      (2)   Building design. The building exterior shall be unified in design
throughout the structure, and shall complement other buildings in the vicinity.
The building shall employ varying building setbacks, height, roof treatments,
door and window openings, and other structural and decorative elements to
reduce apparent size and scale. A minimum of 20% of all of the combined facades
of the structure shall employ actual facade protrusions or recesses. A minimum
of 20% of all of the combined linear roof eave or parapet lines of the
structure shall employ differences in height, with such differences being six
feet or more as measured eave to eave or parapet to parapet for buildings over
50,000 square feet. Roofs with particular slopes may be required by the village
to complement existing buildings or otherwise establish a particular aesthetic
objective. Ground floor facades that face and are within 100 feet of public
streets shall have arcades, display windows, entry areas, awnings, or other
such features along no less than 50% of their horizontal length. The
integration of windows into building design is strongly encouraged.
      (3)   Building entrances. Public building entryways shall be clearly
defined and highly visible on the building’s exterior design, and shall be
emphasized by on-site traffic flow patterns. Two or more of the following
design features shall be incorporated into all public building entryways:
canopies or porticos, overhangs, projections, arcades, peaked roof forms,
arches, outdoor patios, display windows, distinct architectural details. All
sides of the building that directly face or abut a public street or public
parking area shall have at least one public entrance, except that the village
shall not require building entrances on more than two sides of any building or
along facades abutting roads where vehicular access is not provided.
      (4)   Building color. Building facade colors shall be non-reflective,
subtle, neutral, or earth tone. The use of high intensity colors, metallic
colors, black, or fluorescent colors on facades shall be prohibited. Building
trim and architectural accent elements may feature brighter colors, but such
colors shall be muted, not metallic, not fluorescent, and not specific to
particular uses or tenants. Standard corporate and trademark colors shall be
permitted only on sign face and copy areas.
      (5)   Building location. Modest building setbacks are encouraged. Where
buildings are proposed to be distant from a public street, the overall
development design shall include smaller buildings on pads or outlots closer to
the street.
      (6)   Screening. Mechanical equipment, refuse containers and any
permitted outdoor storage shall be fully concealed from on-site and off-site
ground level views, with materials identical to those used on the building
exterior. Loading docks shall be completely screened from surrounding roads and
properties. Said screening may be accomplished through loading areas internal
to buildings, screen walls which match the building exterior in materials and
design, fully opaque landscaping at time of planting, or combinations of the
above. Gates and fencing may be used for security and access, but not for
screening, and shall be of high aesthetic quality. All regulations in §
152.276 shall also be followed.
      (7)   Traffic impact. All projects that include buildings over 20,000
square feet shall have direct access to an arterial street, or shall dedicate
public roads which have direct access to an arterial or major collector street.
Vehicle access shall be designed to accommodate peak on-site traffic volumes
without disrupting traffic on public streets or impairing pedestrian safety.
This shall be accomplished through adequate parking lot design and capacity;
access drive entry throat length, width, design, location, and number, and
traffic control devices, and sidewalks. See §
152.215 for parking and loading requirements. The site design shall provide
direct connections to adjacent land uses if required by the village. Prior to
development approval, the applicant’s traffic engineer shall complete and
present a traffic impact analysis following generally accepted standards of the
profession. Where the project will cause off-site public roads, intersections,
or interchanges to function below level of service C, as defined by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers, the village may require that the
developer construct and/or pay for required off-site improvements, deny the
application, or require a size reduction in the proposed development.
      (8)   Parking. Not more than 50% of the off-street parking spaces shall
be located directly between the front facade of the building and the public
street, unless additional buildings in the overall development are or will be
located between the main building and the public street. Such additional
buildings must be sufficient in size, location, and number to provide an
effective visual break between the public street and the parking lot. Parking
lots in which the number of spaces significantly exceeds the minimum number of
parking spaces required in the Schedule of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
in this chapter shall be allowed only with specific and reasonable
justification. Parking lot design shall employ interior, curbed landscape
islands at all parking aisle ends. In addition, the project shall provide
landscaped islands within each parking aisle spaced at intervals no greater
than one island per every 20 spaces in that aisle. Islands at the ends of
aisles shall count toward meeting this requirement. Each required landscaped
island shall be a minimum of 300 square feet in area. Landscaped medians shall
also be used to break large parking areas into smaller pods, with a maximum of
100 spaces in any pod.
      (9)   Natural features and landscaping. In general, existing natural
features shall be integrated into the site design as a site and community
amenity. On-site landscaping shall be provided per the landscaping requirements
of §
152.278 of this chapter. The project shall feature:
         (a)   Extensive building foundation landscaping for all building
frontages facing public streets, parking lots, or residential districts to
provide visual breaks in the mass of the building;
         (b)   Extensive paved area landscaping for all parking, driveway, and
loading areas to screen and provide visual breaks in the size of such paved
areas. Canopy/shade trees shall be emphasized within landscaped islands, with
shrubs, ground cover, or grass preferred to mulch or stones.
         (10)   Lighting. On-site exterior lighting shall meet all the
standards of §
152.296(G). The color and design of pole lighting standards shall be compatible
with the building and the village’s public lighting in the area, if a
particular public lighting theme has been established for the area.
         (11)   Signage. Signage shall meet all the standards in §
152.235 . The plan for exterior signage shall provide for modest, coordinated,
and complementary exterior sign locations, configurations, and colors
throughout the development. All freestanding signage within the development
shall complement on-building signage. Consolidated signs for multiple users are
strongly preferred over multiple individual signs. The village may require the
use of muted corporate colors on signage if proposed colors are not compatible
with the village’s design objectives for the area.
         (12)   Bicycle and pedestrian access. The entire development shall
provide for safe pedestrian and bicycle access to all uses within the
development, connections to existing and planned public pedestrian and bicycle
facilities, and connections to adjacent properties. Sidewalks shall be provided
along the entire length of any facade containing a public entrance, leaving
room for foundation planting beds. Pedestrian walkways shall be provided from
all building entrances to existing or planned public sidewalks or pedestrian/
bike facilities. Internal pedestrian walkways must be distinguished from
driving surfaces. The development shall provide secure, integrated bicycle
parking and pedestrian furniture in appropriate quantities and location. The
building shall provide awnings or other weather protection features within 30
feet of all customer entrances.
         (13)   Central areas/features. Each development which contains a
building over 40,000 square feet in area shall provide central area(s) or
feature(s) such as a patio/seating area, pedestrian plaza with benches, outdoor
playground area, water feature, and/or other such deliberately designated areas
or focal points that adequately enhance the development or community. All such
areas shall be openly accessible to the public, connected to the public and
private sidewalk system, designed with materials compatible with the building
and remainder of the site, and maintained over the life of the building and
project.
         (14)   Cart returns. A minimum of one cart return area shall be
provided for every 100 parking spaces. Cart corrals shall be of durable, all-
season construction, and shall be designed and colored to be compatible with
the building and parking lot light standards. There shall be no exterior cart
return or cart storage areas located within 25 feet of the building.
         (15)   Waiver of standards. The Village Board may waive any of the
above standards by a three- quarters vote of members in attendance, but only if
supplemental design elements or improvements are incorporated into the project
which compensate for the waiver of the particular standard.
   (G)   Standards for bed and breakfast establishments. Bed and breakfast
establishments are exclusively indoor lodging facilities which provide meals
only to paying lodgers. Such land uses may provide indoor recreational
facilities for the exclusive use of their customers.
      (1)   All such facilities shall be required to obtain a permit to serve
liquor, if applicable. They shall be inspected annually at a fee as established
by a separate ordinance, to verify that the land use continues to meet all
applicable regulations.
      (2)   One sign, with a maximum area of 20 square feet, shall be permitted
on the property, and all other sign requirements of §
152.235 shall be met.
      (3)   Facility shall provide a buffer yard in compliance with §
152.278.
      (4)   No premises shall be utilized for a bed and breakfast establishment
unless there are at least two exits to the outdoors from such premises. Rooms
utilized for sleeping shall have a minimum size of 100 square feet for two
occupants with an additional 30 square feet for each additional occupant to a
maximum of four occupants per room. Each sleeping room used for the bed and
breakfast operation shall have a separate operational smoke detector alarm, as
required in the building code. One lavatory and bathing facility shall be
required for every ten occupants, in addition to the owner/occupant’s personal
facilities.
      (5)   The dwelling unit in which the bed and breakfast takes place shall
be the principal residence of the operator/owner and said operator/owner shall
live on the premises when the bed and breakfast operation is active.
      (6)   Only the meal of breakfast shall be served to overnight guests.
      (7)   Each operator shall keep a list of names of all persons staying at
the bed and breakfast operation. This list shall be kept on file for a period
of one year. Such list shall be available for inspection by village officials
at any time.
      (8)   The maximum stay for any occupants of a bed and breakfast
establishment shall be 14 days.
      (9)   Applicants for a license or special use permit to operate a bed and
breakfast shall submit a floor plan of the single-family dwelling unit
illustrating that the proposed operation will comply with the village zoning
code as amended, and other applicable village codes and ordinances.
      (10)   In the village’s determination of the number of bed and breakfast
establishments required to provide for public convenience and necessity, the
village shall consider the effect upon residential neighborhoods, conditions of
existing holders of licenses, and the necessity of issuance of additional
licenses for public service.
   (H)   Prohibited uses. No use shall be permitted and no process, equipment
or material shall be employed which is found by the Village Board to be
objectionable to persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to
property located in the vicinity by reason of odor, insect nuisance, fumes,
dust, smoke, cinders, dirt, refuse, water-carried wastes, noise, vibration,
illumination, glare, unsightliness or heavy truck traffic, or to involve any
hazard of fire or explosion.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 901, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.152 PERMITTED USES.
   
Appendix 3 lists the uses that shall be permitted by right within the various
districts in which they are listed. Any other use not listed in
Appendix 3 but determined by the Board of Trustees to be substantially similar
to a listed permitted by right use shall also be permitted by right.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 902, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.153 SPECIAL USES.
   
Appendix 3 lists the uses that shall be allowed upon the granting of a special
use permit within the various districts in which they are listed. Any other use
not listed in
Appendix 3 but determined by the Board of Trustees to be substantially similar
to a listed special use shall also be allowed following issuance of a special
use permit.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 903, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-27, passed 11-18-96; Am.
Ord. 1997-1, passed - -97; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.165 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Purposes. In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
152.001, the I Districts included in the village are IL Light Industrial
District, IG General Industrial District and IH Heavy Industrial District and
are included in the zoning code to achieve the following purposes:
      (1)   To reserve appropriately located areas for industrial plants and
related activities;
      (2)   To protect areas appropriate for industrial use from intrusion by
dwellings and other inharmonious uses;
      (3)   To protect residential and commercial properties and to protect
nuisance-free, nonhazardous industrial uses from: noise, odor, insect nuisance,
dust, dirt, smoke, vibration, heat, cold, glare, truck and rail traffic, fire,
explosion, noxious fumes, radiation and other objectionable influences and
hazards incidental to certain industrial uses;
      (4)   To provide opportunities for certain types of industrial plants to
concentrate in mutually beneficial relationship to each other;
      (5)   To provide adequate space to meet the needs of modern industrial
development, including off-street parking and truck loading areas and
landscaping;
      (6)   To provide sufficient open space around industrial structures to
protect them from the hazard of fire and to minimize the impact of industrial
plants on nearby residential and agricultural districts;
      (7)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the amount of land around them.
   (B)   Special purposes of IL Light Industrial District. The IL District is
intended to accommodate light manufacturing, wholesale and research
establishments. The IL District may be located in various areas throughout the
community and may be in close proximity to residential neighborhoods and not be
detrimental to residential uses because of its limited nature. While most often
applied to areas where the location of particular industries has no direct
relationship to other nearby business or industrial districts, it may also be
formed as an adjunct to these established districts.
   (C)   Special purpose of the IG General Industrial District. The purpose of
the IG District is intended to accommodate those manufacturing and industrial
uses which may not or cannot meet the performance standards of the IL District
yet do not have the objectionable influences of those uses found in the IH
District. The IG District should not, where possible, be located in close
proximity to an “R” district.
   (D)   Special purpose of the IH Heavy Industrial District. The purpose of
the IH District is to accommodate those heavier manufacturing and other
industrial uses which have objectionable influences, but which, nevertheless,
should be provided for somewhere in the community. The IH District is, insofar
as possible, applied to locations removed from the R Districts on the basis of
linear distance or natural or manmade features.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1000, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.166 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
the respective subchapters of this zoning code relating to off-street parking;
off-street loading; signs; design review; nonconforming buildings and uses; and
any other applicable portions of this chapter.
   (C)   All uses shall comply with the performance standards as cited in the
“Environmental Protection Act” effective July 1, 1972 as amended, State of
Illinois.
   (D)   No use shall be permitted which emits dangerous radioactivity.
   (E)   No use shall be permitted which creates insect nuisances beyond the
boundaries of the site.
   (F)   Adult entertainment establishments as defined by this chapter may be
permitted as a special use in the districts in which they are allowed, subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be located less than
1,000 feet from a residential dwelling, day nursery, school, place of worship,
playground or park. This distance limitation shall be measured in a straight
line from the main public entrance of the adult entertainment establishment to
the nearest zoning district boundary of a residence district, or to the nearest
property line of the premises of any residential dwelling, day nursery, school,
place of worship, playground or park.
      (2)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be located less than
1,000 feet from another adult entertainment establishment. This distance
limitation shall be measured in a straight line from the closest exterior
structural wall of each existing or proposed adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1001, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.167 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted:
   (A)   IL Light Industrial District. Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, no building or land may be used, and no building may be erected,
converted, enlarged or structurally altered in the IL District except for one
or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of materials, goods or products which conforms to the performance
standards established for this section, but not including any of the uses
listed as permitted in the IH Heavy Industrial District;
      (2)   Wholesaling and warehousing; local cartage and express facilities
(but not including motor freight terminals);
      (3)   Public and community service uses, as follows:
 
Electric substations
Fire stations
Municipal or privately-owned recreation buildings or community centers
Police stations
Radio and television towers
 
Sewage treatment plants
Telephone exchanges
Water filtration plants
Water pumping stations
Water reservoirs
 
      (4)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of such constructions;
      (5)   Accessory structures and accessory uses;
      (6)   Paper mills not involving wood pulping operations;
      (7)   Wind-operated energy devices;
      (8)   Offices and/or office complexes.
   (B)   IG General Industrial District. Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, no building or land use may be used, and no building may be erected,
converted, enlarged or structurally altered in the IG District except for one
or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the IL District;
      (2)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or
storage of materials, goods or products which conforms to the performance
standards established for this section, but not including any of the uses
listed as permitted in the IH Heavy Industrial District;
      (3)   Bus terminals, bus garages, bus lots, street railway terminals, but
not including motor freight terminals;
      (4)   Machinery sale rentals;
      (5)   Wind-operated energy devices.
   (C)   IH Heavy Industrial District. Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, no building or land may be used, and no building may be erected,
converted, enlarged or structurally altered in the IH District except for one
or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the IL or IG District;
      (2)   Production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing and repair,
including the service and manufacturing of the following products:
Coal, coke and tar products, including gas manufacturing
Electric central station, power and steam-generating plants
Explosives, when not prohibited by other ordinances
Feed and fuel stores
Fertilizers
Film, photographic
Flour, feed and grain–milling and processing
Freight forwarding terminals
Gelatin, glue and size–animal
Incineration or reduction of garbage, offal and dead animals
Linoleum and oil cloth
Magnesium foundries
Matches
Metal and metal ores (except precious and rare metals)–reduction, refining,
smelting and alloying
Packing and crating
Paint, lacquer, shellac, varnishes, linseed oil and turpentine
Petroleum products, refining–such as gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, lubricating
oil and liquified petroleum gases
Ready-mix cement plants
Rubber (natural or synthetic)
Sanitary treatment facilities
Soaps, including fat and oil rendering
Starch
Stock yards, slaughter houses and abattoirs
Storage yards for commercial vehicles
Trucking terminals
Veterinarians’ offices and animal hospitals
Wood, coal and bones, distillation
Wood, pulp and fiber, reduction and processing, including paper mill operations
Any other production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing and repair which
conforms with the performance standards established hereinafter for the IH
District
 
      (3)   Storage, including the following uses and materials or products:
 
Goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities permitted in this
district
Dumps and slag piles
Explosives when not prohibited by other ordinances
Grain
Manure, peat and topsoil
Petroleum and petroleum products
 
      (4)   Miscellaneous uses, as follows: railroad freight terminals,
railroad switching and classification yards, repair shops and roundhouses;
      (5)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of such constructions;
      (6)   Accessory structures and accessory uses;
      (7)   Wind-operated energy devices.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1002, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.168 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses shall be permitted upon the granting of a special
use permit in accord with the provisions of the respective subchapter of this
zoning code relating to special uses:
   (A)   IL Light Industrial District.
      (1)   Any use which may be allowed as a permitted use in the CG and CH
Commercial Districts except residential uses including those indicated in §
152.152(C)(3);
      (2)   Airport or aircraft landing fields;
      (3)   Bus terminals, bus garages, bus lots, street railway terminals,
including motor freight (trucking) terminals;
      (4)   Machinery sale rentals;
      (5)   Museums;
      (6)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (7)   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas;
      (8)   Storage of fuel, explosives and flammable liquids;
      (9)   Theaters, outdoor drive-in.
   (B)   IG General Industrial District.
      (1)   Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the IL Districts;
      (2)   Junkyards and automobile wrecking yards, provided they are
contained within completely enclosed buildings or screened by a solid wall or
uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high;
      (3)   Railroad roundhouses, maintenance buildings and switching yards;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants;
      (5)   A trailer and/or modular unit may be used temporarily in
conjunction with a use already allowed and in existence for a period not to
exceed one year following the date on which the special use permit became
effective when it shall lapse and become void;
      (6)   Museums.
   (C)   IH Heavy Industrial District.
      (1)   Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the IL or IG
District, unless already permitted under division (B) above may be allowed by
special use permit in accordance with the provisions of the subchapter of this
zoning code relating to special uses;
      (2)   Junk yards and automobile wrecking yards, provided they are
contained within completely enclosed buildings or screened by a solid wall or
uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high;
      (3)   Production, processing, testing and manufacturing of the following
products unless specifically prohibited to the village:
         (a)   Chemicals, including acetylene, aniline dyes, ammonia, carbine,
caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine, carbon black and bone black, cleaning and
polishing preparation, creosote, exterminating agents, hydrogen and oxygen,
nitrates (manufactured and natural) of an explosive nature, potash, plastic
materials and synthetic resins, proxylin, rayon yarns and acids (hydrocholoric,
nitric, sulphuric and derivatives);
         (b)   Live storage, killing or dressing of poultry or rabbits;
      (4)   Stone and gravel quarries; crushing, grading, washing and loading
equipment and structures;
      (5)   Museums;
      (6)   Adult entertainment establishment (see standards in § 152.166(F));
      (7)   The following asphalt uses:
         (a)   Asphalt and concrete recycling;
         (b)   Asphalt manufacturing/production (i.e. batch plant) provided
that the property that such use located on is at least one mile from any
residentially zoned property in the village and at least one mile from any
village park.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1003, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2018-11, passed 3-19-18)
§ 152.169 SETBACK AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered
in the IL, IG or IH Districts unless the following setbacks are provided and
maintained in connection with such buildings:
   (A)   Front. In the IL Light Industrial, IG General Industrial and IH Heavy
Industrial Districts, a front setback of at least one-half adjacent right-of-
way or 50 feet, whichever is greater for buildings under 25 feet in height. For
buildings which exceed 25 feet in height, the minimum front setback shall be
increased by one foot for each two feet or fraction thereof by which the
building height exceeds 25 feet, but in no case shall a front setback of more
than 60 feet be required.
   (B)   Side. In the IL Light Industrial, IG General Industrial and IH Heavy
Industrial Districts, side setbacks equal to at least 10% of the lot width to a
maximum of 20 feet, except on corner lots where the side setback adjoins a
street, the side setback shall be the same as the front setback.
   (C)   Rear. Rear setbacks of at least 30 feet for buildings in the IL
District and at least 50 feet for buildings in the IG and IH District.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1004, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.170 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses shall comply with the performance standards as cited in the
“Environmental Protection Act” effective July 1, 1972, as amended, State of
Illinois.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1005, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** SPECIAL DISTRICTS ****
§ 152.180 SPECIAL DISTRICT PURPOSES.
   The special districts are established to provide protection to unique
resources and features in the community which are not included within the other
standard zoning classifications and to designate publicly-held lands which
provide recreational and open space areas to the community.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1100, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.181 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All uses shall comply with the regulations prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq.
   (B)   All uses shall comply with the appropriate regulations prescribed in
this zoning code.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1101, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.182 PUBLIC PARK AND CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The Park and Conservation District is intended to preserve
public parks and those natural features and environments which are unique
community assets so they will be protected from adverse urban development
activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no building
or land may be used and no building may be erected, converted, enlarged or
structurally altered in the Park and Conservation District except for one or
more of the following uses:
      (1)   Public parks;
      (2)   Community recreational facilities;
      (3)   Conservation;
      (4)   Golf courses and playgrounds;
      (5)   Accessory structures located on the same site as the principal
structure or principal use.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be allowed by a special use
permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter relating to special
uses:
      (1)   Amusement and recreational services;
      (2)   Clubhouses or lodges;
      (3)   Public service uses;
      (4)   Educational institutions;
      (5)   Historical sites and landmarks;
      (6)   Swimming pools;
      (7)   Concession stands.
(Ord. 1994-3, §§ 1102–1104, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.183 CEMETERY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The Cemetery District is intended to designate publicly-
held lands that provide burial sites to the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no building
or land may be used and no building may be erected, converted, enlarged or
structurally altered in the Cemetery District except for one or more of the
following uses:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Accessory structures located on the same site as the principal
structure or principal use.
   (C)   Special uses. The following uses may be allowed by a special use
permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter relating to special
uses:
      (1)   Crematories and mausoleums;
      (2)   Public service uses;
      (3)   Historical sites and landmarks.
(Ord. 1994-3, §§ 1105–1107, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.184 CONSERVATION NEIGHBORHOOD DESIGN (CND) OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purposes. In addition to the objectives found in §
152.001, this section is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To guide the detailed analysis of the development parcel so as to
locate and coordinate appropriate areas, as recommended by the Village of
Rockton Comprehensive Plan, for development and conservation;
      (2)   To express a cultural and historic heritage of agricultural and
rural character through the permanent preservation of open space and natural
resources within and around the village;
      (3)   To provide commonly-owned open space areas for passive and/or
active recreational use by residents of the development and, where specified,
the larger community;
      (4)   To provide buffering between residential development and non-
residential uses;
      (5)   To protect and restore environmentally sensitive areas and
biological diversity, minimize disturbance to existing vegetation, and maintain
environmental corridors;
      (6)   To preserve significant archaeological sites, historic buildings
and their settings;
      (7)   To conserve those areas containing unique and sensitive natural
features such as native and natural woodlands and grasslands, steep slopes,
streams, floodplains, and wetlands, by protecting those areas from development;
      (8)   To provide greater design flexibility and efficiency in the
provision of services and infrastructure, including the opportunity to reduce
the length of roads, utility runs, and the amount of paving required for
residential development;
      (9)   To reduce erosion and sedimentation by the retention of existing
vegetation and the minimization of development on steep slopes;
      (10)   To provide for a diversity of lot sizes, building densities, and
housing choices to accommodate a variety of age and income groups, and
households with different housing demands, so mat the community’s population
diversity may be maintained;
      (11)   To implement municipal policies to conserve a variety of
irreplaceable and environmentally sensitive resource lands for the benefit of
present and future residents;
      (12)   To protect productive agricultural soils in the region for
continued or future agricultural use by minimizing urban sprawl and promoting
compact, environmentally sensitive neighborhood and community design;
      (13)   To create neighborhoods with direct visual access to open land,
with amenities in the form of neighborhood open space, and with a strong
neighborhood identity;
      (14)   To provide multiple options for landowner in order to minimize
impacts on environmental resources (sensitive lands such as wetlands,
floodplain, and steep slopes) and disturbance of natural or cultural features
(such as mature woodlands, hedgerows and tree lines, critical wildlife
habitats, and culturally or historically significant buildings);
      (15)   To provide standards reflecting the varying circumstances and
interests of individual landowners and the individual characteristics of their
properties; and
      (16)   To conserve scenic views and elements of the village’s small-town
character and minimize perceived density, by using existing natural landforms,
topography, and features to minimize views of new development from existing
roads, where possible.   
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall be observed and applied,
except when the context clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the present
tense shall include the future tense. Words used in the singular form shall
include the plural form. Words used hi the plural form shall include the
singular. The word “shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land within a conservation neighborhood
design that has been designated, dedicated, reserved, or restricted in
perpetuity from further development and is set aside for the use and enjoyment
by residents of the development. COMMON OPEN SPACE shall not be part of
individual residential lots. It shall be substantially free of structures, but
may contain historic structures and archaeological sites including Indian
mounds, and/or such recreational facilities for residents as are indicated on
an approved development plan.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. The grant of a property right or interest from the
property owner to a unit of government or nonprofit conservation organization
stipulating that the described land shall remain in its natural, scenic, open
or wooded state, precluding future or additional development.
      ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS. Includes all of the following:
         (a)   All areas mapped as floodplain by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), Illinois Department of Natural Resources, or other
public or private entity;
         (b)   All wetlands as defined in 20 ILCS 830, Interagency Wetland
Policy Act of 1989, including a 75-foot buffer;
         (c)   All areas having slopes greater than 12% for a contiguous area
of 5,000 square feet or more;
         (d)   All areas within a distance of 75 feet of the ordinary high-
water mark of navigable streams and lakes as identified by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency;
         (e)   Areas that are documented to provide habitat for rare,
threatened or endangered species;
         (f)   Burial sites and Indian mounds; or
         (g)   Existing drainage ways that contain running water during spring
runoff and/or during storm events, including a 25-foot buffer, which may
include features such as natural or man-made drainage swales, springs and
brooks.
      HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. A community association incorporated or not
incorporated, combining individual home ownership with shared use or ownership
of common property or facilities.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Applicability of regulations. The Conservation Neighborhood Design
Overlay option is available in the Village of Rockton’s R-l, R-2, R-M, RM-C,
and PUD districts as a use by right. The applicant shall comply with all other
provisions of the underlying zoning district,
Chapter 152 (the Zoning Code), this chapter (the Subdivision Code (specifically
§
151.068)), and all other applicable laws, except as those provisions are
incompatible with the provisions contained herein.
      (2)   Open space management plan required. Prior to the issuance of a
zoning permit, the applicant shall prepare or cause to be prepared an open
space management plan, which follows the standards outlined in this division
(C).
      (3)   Instrument of permanent protection required. An instrument of
permanent protection, such as a conservation easement or permanent restrictive
covenant shall be placed over the open space concurrent with the issuance of a
zoning permit, and shall include clear restrictions on the use of the open
space. These restrictions shall include all restrictions contained in this
section, as well as any further restrictions the applicant chooses to place on
the use of the open space. The instrument shall be one of the following:
         (a)   A permanent conservation easement in favor of either:
            1.   A land trust or similar conservation-oriented non-profit
organization with legal authority and capacity to accept such easements. The
organization shall be bona fide and in perpetual existence and the conveyance
instruments shall contain an appropriate provision for retransfer in the event
the organization becomes unable to carry out its functions; or
            2.   A governmental entity with an interest in pursuing goals
compatible with the purposes of this section. If the entity accepting the
easement is not the Village of Rockton, then a third right of enforcement
favoring the Village of Rockton shall be included in the easement.
         (b)   A permanent restrictive covenant for conservation purposes in
favor of a governmental entity; or
         (c)   An equivalent legal tool that provides permanent protection, if
approved by the Village of Rockton.
   (D)   Open space. Open space is the portion of the conservation neighborhood
design subdivision that has been set aside for permanent protection. Activities
within the open space are restricted in perpetuity through the use of an
approved legal instrument
      (1)   Standards to determine open space.
         (a)   The minimum restricted open space shall comprise at least 40% of
the total area of the development tract.
         (b)   The following are considered “environmentally sensitive” areas
and, whether individually or collectively, are required to be included within
the open space, unless the applicant demonstrates that this provision would
constitute an unusual hardship and would be counter to the purposes of this
section.
            1.   All areas mapped as floodplain by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), Illinois Department of Natural Resources, or other
public or private entity;
            2.   All wetlands as defined in 20 ILCS 830, Interagency Wetland
Policy Act of 1989, including a 75-foot buffer;
            3.   All areas having slopes greater than 12% for a contiguous area
of 5,000 square feet or more;
            4.   All areas within 75 feet of the ordinary high-water mark of
navigable streams and lakes as identified by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency;
            5.   Areas that are documented to provide habitat for rare,
threatened or endangered species;
            6.   Burial sites and Indian mounds; or
            7.   Drainage ways that contain running water during spring runoff
and/or during storm events, including a 25-foot buffer.
         (c)   Above-ground utility rights-of-way may be included within the
protected open space but cannot be counted towards the 40% minimum area
requirement.
         (d)   At least 50% of the open space shall be in a contiguous tract.
The open space should adjoin any neighboring areas of open space, other
protected areas, and non-protected natural areas that would be candidates for
inclusion as part of a future area of protected open space.
      (2)   The open space shall be directly accessible to the largest
practicable number of lots within the subdivision, but in no case shall less
than two-thirds of all lots directly abut, or face across a street, common open
space areas. Non-adjoining lots shall be provided with safe, convenient
pedestrian access to the open space.
      (3)   Permitted uses of open space. Use of open space shall include the
following:
         (a)   Conservation of natural, archeological or historical resources;
         (b)   Meadows, woodlands, wetlands, wildlife corridors, game
preserves, or similar conservation-oriented areas;
         (c)   Walking or bicycle trails;
         (d)   Passive recreation areas;
         (e)   Active recreation areas, provided that they are limited to no
more than 50% of the total open space and are not located within primary
conservation areas. Active recreation areas may include impervious surfaces.
Active recreation areas in excess of this limit shall be located outside of the
designated open space;
         (f)   Agriculture, horticulture, or silviculture, provided that such
operations do not involve the breeding, raising, keeping, or tending of
livestock (including fish and fowl) and all applicable best management
practices are used to minimize environmental and neighborhood impacts, and such
activities are not conducted within primary conservation areas;
         (g)   Nonstructural storm water management practices;
         (h)   Easements for drainage, access, and underground utility lines;
and
         (i)   Other conservation-oriented uses compatible with the purposes of
this section.
      (4)   Prohibited uses of open space.
         (a)   Golf courses;
         (b)   Roads, parking lots and impervious surfaces, except as
specifically authorized in the previous divisions of this section;
         (c)   Agricultural and forestry activities not conducted as otherwise
allowed above in this section and according to best management practices; and
         (d)   Other activities as determined by the applicant and recorded on
the legal instrument providing for permanent protection.
      (5)   Ownership and management of open space.
         (a)   Ownership of open space. The applicant must identify the owner
of the open space who is responsible for maintaining the open space and
facilities located thereon.
         (b)   Management plan. The applicant shall submit a plan for
management of all open space and common facilities (“plan”) that:
            1.   Allocates responsibilities and guidelines for the maintenance
and operation of the open space and any facilities located thereon, including
provisions for ongoing maintenance and for long-term capital improvements;
            2.   Estimates the costs and staffing requirements needed for
maintenance and operation of, and insurance for, the open space and outlines
the means by which such funding will be obtained or provided;
            3.   Provides that any changes to the plan be approved by the
Village Board and applicable homeowners’ association(s); and
            4.   Provides for enforcement of the plan.
         (c)   In the event the party or parties responsible for maintenance of
the open space fails to maintain all or any portion in reasonable order and
condition, the Village of Rockton may issue an order to cure such condition
within 60 days of issuance. Should the responsible party or parties fail to
cure such condition within 60 days, the Village of Rockton may assume
responsibility for its maintenance and may enter the premises and take
corrective action, including the provision of extended maintenance. The costs
of such maintenance may be charged to the owner, homeowners’ association, or to
the individual property owners that make up the homeowners’ association, and
will include administrative costs and penalties as applicable.
      (6)   Legal instrument for permanent protection. The open space shall be
protected in perpetuity by a binding legal instrument that is recorded with the
deed, as defined in division (B)(3) above.
      (7)   Creation of special service areas.
         (a)   Owner and/or developer must establish, as a condition of
platting, one or more special service areas (“SSA”) to be utilized as a funding
mechanism for the maintenance of open space, including but not limited to
mowing, replanting, or reseeding (“maintenance”). The SSA shall be utilized in
the event owner and/or developer fail to maintain the open space within a
conservation neighborhood design area.
         (b)   The village has no obligation to perform said maintenance but
may do so by right, and will be reimbursed for those funds expended for
maintenance through assessments levied against all dwelling units in the
property. The SSA shall provide for the authority of the village to levy the
amount necessary to fund the payment of all costs and expenses associated with
the SSA which are incurred by the village, including but not limited to,
administrative costs, legal fees, and third-party engineering fees.
   (E)   Dimensional, intensity, and design standards.
      (1)   Single-family residential uses.
         (a)   Maximum density: one dwelling per 12,500 square feet, except for
density incentives as approved by the Planning Commission using the standards
in §
151.068(F)(2)(d).
         (b)   Minimum lot area: 6,000 square feet.
         (c)   Average lot area: 10,000 square foot minimum; 15,000 square foot
maximum.
         (d)   Minimum lot width: 60 feet.
         (e)   Maximum lot width: 100 feet.
         (f)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
         (g)   Maximum lot depth: 200 feet.
         (h)   Minimum front and corner side yard:
            1.   Principal buildings: 15 feet minimum (12 feet to front
porches/steps).
            2.   Attached garages (front-loaded): minimum five feet behind
plane of house.
            3.   Attached garages (side-loaded or rear-loaded): minimum 15
feet.
            4.   Detached garages: 40 feet minimum.
         (i)   Maximum front and corner side yard (principal buildings): 33
feet.
         (j)   Minimum interior side yard: 18-foot separation for principal
buildings, no side yard less than five feet.
         (k)   Minimum rear yard (primary structure): 20 feet.
         (l)   Minimum rear yard (accessory structure): ten feet, except
detached garages accessing a public alley shall be set back a minimum of two
feet.
         (m)   Maximum site coverage (impervious area): 50% on each residential
lot.
         (n)   Maximum height - main structure: 35 feet.
         (o)   Maximum driveway width at right-of-way line (one- or two-car
garage): 18 feet.
         (p)   Maximum driveway width at right-of-way line (three-car garage):
20 feet.
      (2)   Two-family residential uses.
         (a)   Maximum density: one dwelling per 6,250 square feet, except for
density incentives as approved by the Planning Commission using the standards
in §
151.068.
         (b)   Minimum lot area: 7,500 square feet.
         (c)   Minimum lot width: 60 feet.
         (d)   Maximum lot width: 125 feet.
         (e)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
         (f)   Maximum lot depth: 200 feet.
         (g)   Minimum front and corner side yard:
            1.   Principal buildings: 15 feet minimum.
            2.   Attached garages (front-loaded): minimum five feet behind
plane of house.
            3.   Attached garages (side-loaded or rear-loaded): minimum 15 feet
from street right-of-way.
            4.   Detached garages: 40 feet minimum.
         (h)   Maximum front and corner side yard (principal buildings): 33
feet.
         (i)   Minimum interior side yard: 18-foot separation for principal
buildings, no side yard less than five feet.
         (j)   Minimum rear yard (primary structure): 20 feet.
         (k)   Minimum rear yard (accessory structure): ten feet, except
detached garages accessing a public alley shall be set back a minimum of two
feet.
         (l)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
         (m)   Maximum site coverage (impervious area): 50% on each residential
lot.
         (n)   Maximum height - main structure: 35 feet.
         (o)   Maximum driveway width at right-of-way line: 20 feet.
      (3)   Multi-family residential uses (including condominium residential).
         (a)   Maximum density: one dwelling per 5,400 square feet (one per
2,700 square feet as special use), except for density incentives as approved by
the Planning Commission using the standards in §
151.068(F)(2)(d).
         (b)   Minimum lot area: 15,000 square feet.
         (c)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
         (d)   Minimum lot depth: 125 feet.
         (e)   Minimum front and corner side yard:
            1.   Principal buildings: 15 feet minimum.
            2.   Attached garages (front-loaded): minimum five feet behind
plane of principal structure - “shall not be the dominant visual element from
public rights-of-way.” (See §
152.261(K))
            3.   Attached garages (side- or rear-loaded): minimum 15 feet from
street right-of-way - “shall not be the dominant visual element from public
rights-of-way.” (See §
152.261(K))
            4.   Detached garages: 40 feet minimum - “shall not be the dominant
visual element from public rights-of-way.” (See §
152.261(K))
         (f)   Maximum front and corner side yard (principal buildings): 33
feet.
         (g)   Minimum interior side yard: 20-foot separation for principal
buildings, no side yard less than ten feet.
         (h)   Minimum rear yard (primary structure): 25 feet.
         (i)   Minimum rear yard (accessory structure): ten feet, except
detached garages accessing a public alley shall be set back a minimum of two
feet.
         (j)   Maximum site coverage (impervious area): 65% on each residential
lot.
         (k)   Maximum height - main structure: 35 feet (up to 75 feet as
special use).
      (4)   All new dwellings shall meet the following additional setback
requirements:
         (a)   From all exterior roads ultimate right-of-way: 100 feet.
         (b)   From all other tract boundaries: 50 feet.
         (c)   From cropland or pastureland: 100 feet.
         (d)   From buildings or barnyards housing livestock: 500 feet.
         (e)   From active recreation areas, such as courts or playing fields
(not including tot-lots): 150 feet.
      (5)   Views of house lots from exterior roads and abutting properties
shall be minimized by the use of changes in topography, existing vegetation, or
additional landscaping that meets the landscaping requirements of §§
152.275 through
152.281, the village’s landscaping ordinance.
      (6)   House lots shall generally be accessed from interior streets rather
than from roads bordering the tract.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 2-16-10)
**** PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ****
§ 152.195 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Planned Unit Developments may be permitted in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter, and under a distinct zoning district. Lands developed as
Planned Unit Developments shall be rezoned to the PUD Planned Unit Development
zoning district and labeled “PUD” on the zoning map. As of the date of adoption
of this subchapter, Planned Unit Developments will no longer be created under
the special use permit process. Planned Unit Developments existing before
January 1, 2004 created by special use permit shall continue to be considered
conforming uses in the district where they are located. However, any
substantial alteration of such developments shall require rezoning to the PUD
Planned Unit Development zoning district.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1200, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.196 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The Planned Unit Development District is developed in order to:
   (A)   Encourage unique design and site planning of land areas through the
use of criteria, which, when properly implemented allows for certain
flexibility and density bonuses;
   (B)   Permit and foster condominium developments in accord with the
provisions of the “Condominium Property Act,” effective June 1963, as amended,
State of Illinois;
   (C)   Provide an administrative procedure and standards to facilitate and
utilize imaginative design and subdivision technology;
   (D)   Forward both the aesthetic and economic development objectives of the
village by employing more flexible requirements for land uses, density,
intensity, bulk, building arrangements, yard areas, setbacks, landscaping, and
parking than normally required in other zoning districts. In exchange for such
flexibility, projects in the Planned Unit Development district shall provide a
much higher level of site design, architectural control, and other aspects of
aesthetic and functional excellence than normally required for other
developments and in other zoning districts. These projects must be developed in
accordance with detailed plans approved by the village, following a careful
review process;
   (E)   Allow for traditional neighborhood developments as defined in §
152.008.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1201, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.197 DEFINITION OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   A development occupying six or more gross acres, including all land within
the project boundaries plus one-half of all adjacent public rights-of-way, to
be constructed by a single owner or group of owners acting jointly; located on
one or more lot(s) of record; involving a related group of single or mixed
uses, planned as an entity and, therefore, acceptable for development and
regulation as one complex land use unit, rather than as a mere aggregation of
individual buildings located on separate unrelated lots.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1202, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.198 ALLOWABLE USES.
   In the PUD District, any permitted or conditional use in any of the other
districts in this title, or mix of uses, may be permitted if approved by the
village as a component of an overall development plan and specific
implementation plan. Uses not specified in such approved plans shall not be
allowed in that particular Planned Unit Development district.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1203, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.199 PERMITTED DENSITY AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Planned Unit Development district may allow variety in development
intensity and density. There shall be no pre-specified building size, number of
units, lot area, lot width, yard, height, parking or open space requirements.
Instead, such standards shall be proposed by the developer in the required
plans, and approved by the village, with adjustments as necessary to meet
village conditions of approval.
   (B)   Maximum site intensity, density, and dimensional standards in the
Planned Unit Development district shall be based on similar standards in the
nearest comparable residential, commercial, or industrial zoning district. Any
variations from such standards shall be specifically requested by the
petitioner and approved by the Planning Commission. Individual uses and
structures in a Planned Unit Development district shall comply with the
specific use, building location, height, building size, lot size, and
landscaping requirements as set forth by the Planning Commission as conditions
and restrictions of approval.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1204, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.200 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applicant. The applicant for a Planned Unit Development shall be the
owner of the site, or if more than one, all owners of the site acting jointly.
For the purposes of this provision, OWNER shall mean and include any public
body, corporation or a holder of a written option to purchase.
   (B)   Pre-application Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission
will preliminarily review the proposed Planned Unit Development according to
the following process:
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Each prospective applicant shall confer
with the Planning Commission in connection with preparation of the application
prior to the submission of such application. At this conference, the following
basic information and data shall be considered:
         (a)   The boundaries of the property;
         (b)   Existing easements and covenants affecting the property;
         (c)   Land characteristics, such as natural drainage, swamp areas, and
wooded areas;
         (d)   Development characteristics, such as surrounding streets,
existing buildings, available community sewer, water and other utilities; and
         (e)   The proposed layout, including the location and extent of the
various types of uses, parks, playgrounds and other community facilities.
      (2)   Planning Commission review and advice. The Planning Commission
shall review the proposed Planned Unit Development to determine its conformity
with residential land development trends in the community; standards of the
official comprehensive plan and recognized principles of design, land use,
planning and landscape architecture.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall convey in writing to the applicant
its impressions on the concept plans and project, and advice on modifications
if the concept is generally acceptable. Formal approval or rejection of plans
is not required in this phase.
         (b)   This communication must be made within 60 days of receipt of the
request to review the proposed Planned Unit Development concept.
   (C)   Rezoning and overall development plan (ODP) review.
      (1)   Application.  After receipt of a written report or minutes from the
Planning Commission on the concept plan, the applicant may petition for a
rezone to the Planned Unit Development district. An application for a Planned
Unit Development zoning shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on a form
prescribed by the Zoning Administrator and provided for that purpose, as
described in §
152.440 et seq. Along with the proper form, the applicant shall submit to the
Zoning Administrator 30 copies of an ODP showing:
         (a)   All information and data required by the subdivision code of the
village;
         (b)   Kind, location, bulk and capacity of proposed structures and
uses;
         (c)   A site inventory and analysis map with topography at two foot
contours to identify site assets, resources, and constraints, including but not
limited to floodplains, wetlands, soils with limitations for building
development, utility easements, slopes greater than 15%, and existing trees
over four inches in diameter;
         (d)   Preliminary engineering and improvement plans, including a
utility feasibility analysis with a map showing the general locations of
proposed public utility and street connections and a conceptual stormwater
management plan identifying the proposed patterns of major stormwater runoff,
locations of stormwater infiltration areas, and other significant stormwater
management features;
         (e)   The location of recreational and open space areas to be reserved
or dedicated to the public;
         (f)   A conceptual landscape plan showing general locations and types
of proposed landscaping, including maintenance of existing vegetation where
appropriate;
         (g)   A conceptual site plan or neighborhood development plan, at a
scale of no less than one inch equals 100 feet, which indicates existing and
proposed building outlines, location of streets, driveways, parking areas,
loading areas, sidewalks and bicycle paths, service access areas for receiving
material and trash removal, and other impervious surfaces;
         (h)   Typical proposed building elevations identifying the proposed
architectural style(s) and building sizes of the development. For proposed
residential developments where lot sizes are less than typically required in
standard residential zoning districts in the village, the developer shall also
submit elevations of proposed residence sizes, styles, setbacks, and square
footages to assure the village that the proposed residences will match village
expectations and be consistent with the character of the lots being proposed;
         (i)   Written statement of facts explaining in detail the proposal and
justifying the project at this location. Included also shall be the proposed
provisions for service, maintenance and continued protection of the Planned
Unit Development and adjoining territory;
         (j)   Such other pertinent information as the Zoning Administrator
shall prescribe.
      (2)   Planning Commission review of application.
         (a)   The Zoning Administration shall refer the completed application
for a Planned Unit Development rezoning and ODP approval to the Chairman of the
Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall provide adequate public
notice of the meeting at which a recommendation is possible or anticipated.
         (b)   Upon receipt in proper form of a complete application and
complete ODP submittal, the Planning Commission, within 60 days, unless the
time period is extended by joint approval of the applicant and Planning
Commission, shall review the application and submit a written recommendation to
the Chairman of the Rockton Zoning Board of Appeals. The recommendation of the
Commission shall become a part of the permanent record to be reviewed by the
Zoning Board of Appeals and Village Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall use the following criteria in its
review and recommendation on the rezoning and ODP:
            1.   The establishment of a Planned Unit Development will not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
            2.   The manner in which the overall design of the proposed Planned
Unit Development relates to the natural and man-made features in the immediate
and surrounding area;
            3.   The Planned Unit Development will not be injurious to the use
and enjoyment of other properties in the immediate vicinity for the purpose
already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within
the neighborhood;
            4.   The Planned Unit Development will not impede the normal or
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
            5.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or other
necessary facilities will be provided;
            6.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets;
            7.   The development will create an attractive environment of
sustained desirability and economic stability, including structures in relation
to terrain, consideration of safe pedestrian flow, ready access to recreation
space, and coordination with overall plans for the neighborhood;
            8.   The proposed PUD district is consistent in all respects to the
purpose of this section and to the spirit and intent of the zoning code, and is
in conformity with the comprehensive plan, and elements thereof, for community
development;
            9.   The development will be carried out according to a
construction submittal satisfactory to the village;
            10.   Common open space designed, intended, and properly managed
for the use and enjoyment of residents of a PUD district will be provided;
            11.   There is a community need for the proposed project at the
proposed location in light of existing and proposed uses of a similar nature in
the area, and the development will provide or maintain a proper mix of uses
within the village and within the immediate area of the proposed use.
         (d)   The Commission may recommend reasonable conditions regarding the
layout, circulation and performance of the proposed development. The Planning
Commission may recommend approval of private streets for unique developments
that may utilize condominium development techniques, cluster housing concepts
and other imaginative and unique development methods when consistent with the
purpose of this subchapter. The Planning Commission may recommend that a
Planned Unit Development site be divided into two or more parts with densities,
heights, and other characteristics determined for each part if such division
will improve the total character of the development and make it more compatible
with the general development of the area.
      (3)   Action of Zoning Board of Appeals. Within 60 days after the
Planning Commission provides a recommendation on the proposed Planned Unit
Development rezoning and ODP, the Board of Appeals shall make written findings
of fact and shall submit same together with its recommendation,
including recommended conditions, to the Board of Trustees. For the Board of
Appeals to make an affirmative recommendation, it must find that the criteria
listed in division (C)(2)(c) of this section are met. The Zoning Administrator
shall provide adequate public notice of the meeting at which a recommendation
is possible or anticipated.
      (4)   Action by Village Board of Trustees.
         (a)   Public hearing notice. The Board of Trustees shall hold a public
hearing within 45 days of the receipt of a recommendation from the Zoning Board
of Appeals, following the guidelines for public hearing notice and procedures
set forth in §
152.440 et seq.
         (b)   Public hearing procedure. At the public hearing, the Board of
Trustees shall review the application and the reports of the Zoning Board of
Appeals and Planning Commission and may receive additional evidence.
         (c)   Findings of fact and action of the Village Board. Within 45 days
after the Board of Trustees’ public hearing, the Board shall make a specific
finding as to whether the rezoning is consistent with the objectives of the
zoning code prescribed in §
152.001, and with the criteria in division (C)(2)(c) of this section. If the
Board finds that the rezoning is consistent, it shall enact an ordinance that
shall rezone the lands to PUD and approve the ODP. Such ordinance may include
conditions and/or restrictions upon the location, design and construction as
deemed necessary to secure the general objectives of this chapter. If the Board
finds that the rezoning is not consistent with the criteria in (C)(2)(c), it
shall reject the zoning request and ODP.
         (d)   Three-quarter vote required in some circumstances. A rezoning
request to PUD which fails to receive a favorable recommendation of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall not be granted by the Board of Trustees except by the
favorable vote of three-quarters of all of the Trustees who are present. In the
event that written protest against a proposed Planned Unit Development is made
by the owner or owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across a
street, alley or public easement and filed with the Village Clerk, such Planned
Unit Development rezoning shall not be granted except by an affirmative vote of
at least three-quarters of all the members of the Board of Trustees.
         (e)   Right to build and timeframe. Approval of rezoning to the PUD
district shall confer, subject to specific implementation plan (SIP) approval,
the right to build only the project specifically described in the ODP, and any
village conditions, subject to the timeframe provided in §
152.204 and allowable amendments under § 152.206.
   (D)   Specific implementation plan (SIP) approval.
      (1)   Plan submittal. Detailed plans, described below under the specific
implementation plan (SIP) submittal requirements, are not required to be
submitted at the time the Planned Unit Development ODP and rezoning to PUD is
considered; however, the ODP and SIP review process may be combined and made
faster by doing so. Before any building permit is issued, the village shall
review and approve an SIP. If the approved ODP specified that development of
the site would proceed in phases, the village
may approve an SIP covering only a portion of the previously approved ODP area.
The applicant shall file 30 copies of the SIP including the following
information with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
the drawings to the Planning Commission for their revision and approval. In
addition to meeting all plan submittal requirements for site plan review under
§
152.255 et seq., the SIP application shall include the following:
         (a)   Where a land division or lot consolidation is proposed, a final
plat or certified survey map of the entire development area included in the
SIP, meeting all requirements of the village’s subdivision code showing
detailed lot layout, intended uses of each parcel, public dedication, public
and private streets, driveways, walkways, and parking facilities;
         (b)   Typical elevations or detailed design standards for single- and
two-family residential buildings and detailed elevations of all proposed non-
residential, mixed-use, and multi-family residential buildings. Such detailed
elevations shall identify all wall signs, the percentage of ground floor
commercial facade in windows, and the location, height and materials for
screening walls and fences, including those proposed to surround outdoor trash
and recyclable storage areas, electrical, mechanical, and gas metering
equipment, and rooftop equipment; where building construction is not imminent,
detailed design standards that will apply to all non-residential buildings may
substitute for detailed elevations, if approved by the village;
         (c)   For projects including single- and two-family residences,
description of proposed house designs, house areas, house widths, garage
placements, and proposed binding protective covenants, to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the village, that future homes will be appropriate for the size
of the lots and the quality of the proposed development;
         (d)   Signage plans demonstrating a unified or compatible sign design
theme for major signage in the Planned Unit Development;
         (e)   Arrangements, bylaws, provisions or covenants which govern the
organizational structure, use, architectural standards, maintenance and
continued protection of the Planned Unit Development.
      (2)   Action of the Planning Commission. Within 30 days of receipt of a
complete application, the Planning Commission shall approve the SIP,
conditionally approve the SIP with changes consistent with the approved ODP,
reject the SIP, or request that the applicant revise the plans. Failure of the
Planning Commission to act within 30 days of the date of receipt of a complete
application shall be deemed to be Planning Commission approval of the
application. A time extension may be requested by the applicant and granted by
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall use the approved ODP,
all applicable village ordinances, and the village’s comprehensive plan as
bases for its decision. A final plat or certified survey map associated with
the development is also subject to Planning Commission and Village Board
approval under the provisions of the village subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Recording of agreements. Upon final approval of the SIP, the
applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator all plans and documents
associated with the SIP with amendments as required to address any conditions
of approval. Such plans and documents shall be referred to in regard to
enforcement of modification of the development plans. All covenants,
restrictions or contractual agreements with the village shall be recorded with
the register of deeds before final issuance of building permits.
      (4)   Time limitation. If applicant does not submit and have approved a
SIP for a PUD within one year of village approval for a rezoning to the PUD
district, the previously approved ODP shall be considered null and void. A new
petition and approval process shall be required to obtain approval of the same
or a revised ODP.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1205, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.201 RECORDED PLAT REQUIRED.
   A plat of subdivision shall be recorded. Such plat will show building lines,
common land, streets, easements and other applicable features required by the
subdivision code. All applicable procedures, standards and requirements of the
subdivision code shall be followed except those in conflict with this section.
No building permits shall be issued until after final approval of the Planned
Unit Development and recording of the subdivision plat as finally approved by
the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1206, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.202 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION.
   Before final approval of a Planned Unit Development, the Board of Appeals,
on recommendation of the Planning Commission or on its own initiative, may
recommend and the Village Board of Trustees may require a contract with
safeguards satisfactory to the Village Attorney guaranteeing completion of the
Planned Unit Development in a period specified under the approval, but which
period shall not exceed five years unless extended by the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1207, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.203 TIME LIMITS AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   An approved Planned Unit Development granted subject to a condition or
conditions shall be temporarily revoked by the Village Board of Trustees and
all work on the project shall stop if the condition or conditions are not
complied with, the project is not developed or operated in accordance with the
approved SIP, or compliance with village ordinances is not achieved. The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing within 45 days of such temporary
revocation and may recommend permanent revocation of the permit for the Planned
Unit Development or the taking of such action as may be necessary to ensure
compliance with the regulation, general provision or condition. Following such
recommendation, the Board of Trustees may seek such remedies as are available
under village ordinance and state statute.
   (B)   In any case when construction of a Planned Unit Development has not
commenced within one year after the date of approval of an SIP for a Planned
Unit Development, or complete construction within two years of approval of the
SIP, the previously approved SIP shall be considered null and void; except
where the village approves an alternative phasing plan with the SIP. A new
petition and approval process shall be required to obtain SIP approval and
commence construction following such time periods.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1208, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.204 NEW APPLICATION.
   No application for a Planned Unit Development special use permit which has
been denied wholly or in part by the Village Board of Trustees shall be
resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of said denial, except on
the grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by
the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1209, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.205 CHANGES OR ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Any change of the Planned Unit Development ODP or SIP subsequent to
approval of the Planned Unit Development shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. If the Administrator determines that the change constitutes a
substantial modification, the developer will be required to amend the Planned
Unit Development in compliance with the procedures set forth in this section
for original review and approval of the ODP or SIP, whichever is affected.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, such changes do not
constitute a substantial alteration, the change may be accomplished by approval
of the Zoning Administrator. Such approved changes or modifications shall be
documented and recorded in the official file of the village on the Planned Unit
Development.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** PARKING AND LOADING ****
§ 152.215 PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the village’s parking and loading requirements
is to alleviate or prevent congestion of public rights-of-way so as to promote
the safety and general welfare of the public by establishing minimum
requirements for the provision of off-street parking and circulation in
accordance with the utilization of various sites.
   (B)   Amount and location of parking. Except as may be approved by the
Planning Commission within the CR district, all parking and loading space needs
generated by development shall be accommodated off-street. Such spaces shall
not be less in number than the parking and loading space requirements of the
schedule contained in the appendix to this chapter, and all required parking
shall be maintained for the life of the use.
   (C)   (1)   Potential reductions of required off-street parking spaces and
the provision of reserve off-street parking area. The Planning Commission may
decrease the required number of off-street parking spaces by up to 25% of the
requirement based upon one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Technical documentation furnished by the applicant which
indicates, to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission, that actual off-
street parking demand for that particular use is less than the required
standard set forth in Appendix 2 of this chapter.
         (b)   Bicycle parking facilities will be provided through racks,
lockers, or equivalent structures located convenient to the proposed use.
         (c)   A public transportation route is located within 500 feet of the
property.
      (2)   In the event the number of required off-street parking spaces is
reduced as allowed under this section, the Planning Commission may also require
that sufficient area on the property be held in reserve for the potential
future development of off-street parking to meet the requirements of Appendix
2. If required by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, such reserve
off-street parking area shall be shown and noted on the site plan, maintained
as open space, and developed with off-street parking spaces when the village
determines that such off-street parking is necessary. The property owner or
applicant shall provide the village with a financial surety in a form
acceptable to the Village Attorney and in an amount of 125% of the cost to
construct the additional off-street parking spaces prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1300, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.216 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Interpretation by Zoning Administrator. Parking spaces for uses not
listed in Appendix 2 of this chapter shall be determined by the Administrator
based on the requirements for comparable uses.
   (B)   Fractional numbers. Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next
whole number.
   (C)   Preexisting parking and loading spaces. Parking and loading spaces
which were in existence on the effective date of this chapter or were provided
voluntarily after such date shall not hereafter be reduced in number except to
conform to the requirements herein.
   (D)   Use exclusively for parking and loading. Parking and loading spaces
shall be used solely for the intended use and not for the storage of goods, or
of vehicles which are inoperable. Except for approved car sales, lease, or
rental lots, only vehicles registered to the owner of a lot may be displayed on
that lot for sale, rent, or lease.
   (E)   Parking and storage. All motor vehicles shall be parked or stored on a
delineated, hard-surfaced or gravel parking area, or within an enclosed
structure. Vehicles shall not be parked or stored on a lawn or other non-hard-
surfaced or non-graveled area.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1302, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.217 PROXIMITY AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Location. Parking and loading spaces generated by development shall be
located on the same parcel as the use which they are intended to serve, except
where shared parking is allowed by the village, subject to a shared parking
easement or agreement recorded against all affected properties (see the
requirements of § 152.219). Properties located in the CR District are exempt
from this requirement. Off-street parking shall not be located between the
principal structure on a residential lot and a street right-of-way, except
within residential driveways and parking lots designated on the approved site
plan. Generally, each parking space designed to serve as required parking shall
not be located farther than 300 feet in distance from the access to all of the
various areas it is designed to serve, except in cases of shared parking (see §
152.218(C)(5)(a)).
   (B)   Parking on public right-of-way.  No private parking that is required
by this chapter shall occur on street terraces, driveways, or any other areas
located within a public right-of-way not explicitly designated by the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1303, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.218 COLLECTIVE USAGE.
   (A)   Mixed occupancies. In the case of two or more uses in the same
building, the total requirements for off-street parking facilities shall be the
sum of the requirements for the several uses computed separately. Off-street
parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing required
parking facilities for any other use, except as approved specifically by the
Administrator for joint but alternative uses.
   (B)   Cooperative parking facility. Up to 15% reduction in the number of
required parking spaces for four or more separate uses; 10% for three separate
uses; and 5% for two separate uses may be authorized by the Administrator
following approval of a plan which provides for a collective parking facility
of no less than 15,000 square feet, serving two or more buildings or under any
parking district which may hereafter be provided by law.
   (C)   Joint but alternate use. The Administrator may authorize the joint use
of parking facilities under the following conditions:
      (1)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities by nighttime uses may be
supplied by the off-street parking facilities by daytime uses.
      (2)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities of daytime uses may be supplied
by the off-street parking facilities of nighttime uses.
      (3)   Up to 100% of the parking facilities of a church or auditorium
incidental to a graded school may be supplied by the off-street parking
facilities of daytime uses.
      (4)   For the purposes of this section, DAYTIME USES are defined as
offices, banks, retail stores, personal service or repair shops, household
equipment or furniture stores, manufacturing or wholesale or similar,
primarily, daytime uses; and NIGHTTIME USES are defined as auditoriums
incidental to graded schools, churches, bowling alleys, dance halls, theaters;
bars or restaurants, motels, or similar, primarily, nighttime or Sunday uses
and R-8 and R-9 non-elderly, multi-family housing.
      (5)   Conditions required for joint use.
         (a)   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 500 feet of such parking facilities.
         (b)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
         (c)   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the Village Attorney, shall be filed with the
Administrator. Joint use parking privileges shall continue in effect only so
long as such an instrument, binding on all parties, remains in force. If such
instrument becomes legally ineffective, then parking shall be provided as
otherwise required in this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1304, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.219 DESIGN.
   (A)   Plot plan. Any application for a building permit shall include
therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any
parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this chapter,
excluding required parking of four spaces or less. The plot plan shall be
approved by the Administrator, or if the project requires submittal of a site
plan under §
152.256, the Planning Commission. A garage stall shall be considered a parking
space. Parking spaces for any and all vehicles exceeding 18 feet in length
shall be clearly indicated on said plot plan.
   (B)   Traffic circulation and traffic control. Site circulation shall be
designed to provide for the safe and efficient movement of all traffic
entering, exiting, and on the site. Circulation shall be provided to meet the
individual needs of the site with specific mixing of access and through
movements, and where required, shall be depicted on the required site plan.
Circulation patterns shall conform with the general rules of the road and all
traffic control measures shall meet the requirements of the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
   (C)   Surfacing and drainage. Parking and loading areas shall be graded and
drained to dispose of all surface water accumulated within the area. The method
of discharge of such water to public facilities shall be subject to approval of
the Village Engineer. All required parking and loading spaces and access drives
shall be paved with a dustless and durable, hard, all-weather surface such as
pavement or bituminous concrete, except for parking areas for single family
dwellings, which may be graveled. Parking areas intended for five or more
parking stalls shall be marked in a manner which clearly indicates required
parking spaces.
   (D)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or
loading areas shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way
as not to create a nuisance to either residential properties or oncoming
vehicles. All off-street parking and traffic circulation areas serving five or
more cars shall be lit so as to ensure the safe and efficient use of said areas
during the hours of use. Lighting illumination levels shall not exceed the
standards of §
152.296(G).
   (E)   Landscaping. Three percent of the area devoted to the parking area
shall be developed with natural landscaping and maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the paved area landscaping standards in §
152.278(C)(2).
   (F)   Maintenance. All off-street parking and traffic circulation areas
shall be maintained in a dust-free condition at all times for the life of the
use. In no instance or manner shall any off-street parking or traffic
circulation area be used as a storage area, except as provided for by any other
section of this chapter.
   (G)   Curbing. All off-street parking areas designed to have head-in parking
within 6½ feet of any lot line shall provide a tire bumper or curb of adequate
height and which is properly located to ensure that no part of any vehicle will
project closer than three feet from any lot line, except where a shared parking
lot crosses a lot line.
   (H)   Access. Each required off-street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway that is wide enough and designed to provide a safe
and efficient means of vehicular access to the parking space without directly
backing or maneuvering a vehicle into a public right-of-way. All off-street
parking and traffic circulation facilities shall be designed with an
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley, in a manner which
least interferes with traffic movements. No driveway across public property, or
requiring a curb cut, shall exceed a width of 40 feet for commercial and
industrial land uses, or 25 feet for residential land uses. Off-street parking
spaces for residential uses may be stacked or in front of one another for the
same building unit. Parking spaces located behind an enclosed garage and
located directly off a through aisle shall be a minimum of 30 feet deep.
   (I)   Signage. All signage located within, or related to, required off-
street parking or traffic circulation shall comply with the requirements of §§
152.235  et. seq.
   (J)   Handicapped parking spaces. Parking for the handicapped shall be
provided at a size, number, location, and with signage as specified by state
and federal regulations.
   (K)   Snow storage. Required off-street parking and traffic circulation
areas shall not be used for snow storage, unless the number of parking spaces
exceeds the required number of spaces for the use(s) depicted in the appendix
to this chapter.
   (L)   Parking space design standards. Other than parking required to serve
the handicapped, every and all provided off-street parking space shall comply
with the minimum requirements found in the appendix to this chapter. The
minimum required length of parking spaces shall be 17 feet, plus an additional
1½ foot vehicle overhang area at the end of the stall. All parking spaces shall
have a minimum vertical clearance of at least seven feet.
   TABLE 152.219(L)(a): PARKING LAYOUT DIMENSIONS
Minimum Permitted Parking Angle in Degrees ()
Dimensions        Stall width at parking angle 9.0' 9.0' 9.0' 9.0' 9.0'
                  (SW)
                                              Parking Angle in Degrees ()
                                              Stall
                                              width
Minimum Permitted Dimensions                  at      9.0'   9.0'   9.0'   9.0' 9.0'
                                              parking
                                              angle
                                              (SW)
Stall width parallel to aisle (WP)            17.90'  12.7'  10.4'  9.3'   9.0'
Stall depth to wall (D)                       9.0'1   17.5'1 19.0'1 19.5'1 18.5'1
Stall depth to interlock (DI)                 —     15.3'  17.5'  18.8'  —
Stall length, including 1.5' curb overhang    18.5'   18.5'  18.5'  18.5'  18.5'
(SL)
Aisle width (AW)                              12.0'2  12.0'2 16.0 2 17.20  24.0'
                                                                    2
Throat length (right-of-way to parking angle) Refer to requirements in Table 152.219
(T)                                           (M)(a).
Parking module width (PMW)
   Wall to wall (single-loaded) (W1)       21.0'   29.5'  35.0'  42.5'  44.5'
   Wall to wall (double-loaded) (W2)       30.0'   47.0'  54.0'  62.0'  63.0'
   Wall to interlock (double-loaded) (W3)  —     44.8'  52.5'  61.3'  —
   Interlock to interlock (double-loaded)  —     42.6'  51.0'  60.6'  —
(W4)
   1 Parking spaces located behind an enclosed garage shall be at least 30 feet
deep.
   2 This dimension (AW) is for one-way traffic. For two-way, add 8 feet to a
maximum (AW) of 26 feet.
   DIAGRAM FOR TABLE 152.219(L)(a): TYPICAL PARKING LAYOUT DIMENSIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4634cc7e5efc336e2ebd9611e0084dedba64d1d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.png]
 
      (M)   Minimum permitted throat length. Table 152.219(M)(a) shall be used
to determine the minimum permitted throat length of access drives serving
parking lots (dimension T in diagram for Table 152.219(L)(a)), as measured from
the right-of-way line along the centerline of the access drive:
   TABLE 152.219(M)(a): MINIMUM PERMITTED THROAT LENGTH
                              Type of Access Street
Land Use Scale of Development Collector Arterial
                                                     Type of Access Street
Land Use               Scale of Development          Collector Arterial
                       4-100 dwelling units          25 feet   25 feet
Residential (4+ units) 101-200 dwelling units        25 feet   50 feet
                       201+ dwelling units           50 feet   75 feet
                       0-25,000 gross sq. ft.        25 feet   50 feet
Commercial             25,001-100,000 gross sq. ft.  25 feet   75 feet
                       100,000-500,000 gross sq. ft. 50 feet   100 feet
                       500,001+ gross sq. ft.        75 feet   200 feet
                       0-100,000 gross sq. ft.       25 feet   50 feet
Industrial             100,001-500,000 gross sq. ft. 50 feet   100 feet
                       500,000+ gross sq. ft.        50 feet   200 feet
All other uses                                       25 feet   50 feet
 
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1305, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.220 PUBLICLY ESTABLISHED PARKING.
   An exception to parking space requirements in
Appendix 2 of this chapter may be made in commercial districts or whenever
required parking and loading spaces cannot be located on the parcel because of
development restrictions imposed by the presence of an existing principal
structure which is to continue in use, such as within the CR District. Required
parking may then be provided off the parcel, for permitted uses only, subject
to the following requirements:
   (A)   If the use is residential, hotel, motel or tourist home, the off-lot
spaces shall be within 200 feet of the principal entrance or the entrance for
individual occupants for whom spaces are reserved.
   (B)   If the use is other than residential, hotel, motel or tourist home,
the farthest portion of the parking lot shall be within 1,000 feet of an
entrance to the establishment.
   (C)   Distances indicated above shall be measured along routes generally
available to the pedestrians involved.
   (D)   Parking spaces may be at greater distances than those indicated above
when approved by the Administrator.
   (E)   Such off-lot spaces shall be located only in AG districts in which
similar off-street parking is permitted.
   (F)   The off-lot parking area shall be held in fee simple by the same owner
as the use requiring the off-street parking space, or under lease, rental or
other form of agreement satisfactory to the Administrator as assuring
continuing availability for required off-street parking for the use.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1306, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.221 LOADING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote the safety and
general welfare of the public by alleviating or preventing congestion of public
rights-of-way, vehicular damage, and personal injury through minimum
requirements for off-street loading facilities applicable to private and public
land uses.
   (B)   Applicability. Any use which has a gross floor area of 10,000 square
feet or more, and which requires deliveries or makes shipments, shall provide
off-street loading facilities in accordance with the regulations of this
section, except for all uses in the CR District.
   (C)   Required loading plan. Where a site plan is required for any project
under §
152.256, any and all loading and associated circulation areas proposed to be
located on the subject property shall be depicted as to their location and
configuration on the site plan.
   (D)   Location. All loading berths shall be located 25 feet or more from the
intersection of two street right-of-way lines. Loading berths shall not be
located within any required minimum front yard or street yard setback area, or
within 50 feet of any property zoned or used for residential purposes. All
loading areas shall be located on the private lot and shall not be located
within, or so as to interfere with, any public right-of-way. Loading berths in
the CR District shall be exempt from the requirements of this division. There
shall be no loading or unloading on Main Street.
   (E)   Size of loading areas. The first required loading berth shall be
designed in accordance with
Table 152.221(E)(a). All remaining required loading berths shall be a minimum
of 25 feet in length. All required loading berths shall have a minimum vertical
clearance of 14 feet. The following standards shall be the minimum used to
design loading areas:
TABLE 152.221(E)(a): LOADING STANDARDS
Design  Length in Dock Angle  Clearance in Berth Width Apron Space Total Offset
Vehicle Feet      (a)         Feet (D)     in Feet (W) in Feet (A) in Feet (T)
Design  Length in Dock Angle  Clearance in Berth Width Apron Space Total Offset
Vehicle Feet      (a)         Feet (D)     in Feet (W) in Feet (A) in Feet (T)
                                           10          63          113
                  90          50           12          56          106
                                           14          52          102
                                         10          46          90
WB-40   50        60          44           12          40          84
                                           14          35          79
                                           10          37          73
                  45          36           12          32          68
                                           14          29          65
                                           10          77          132
                  90          55           12          72          127
                                           14          67          122
                                         10          55          103
WB-50   55        60          48           12          51          99
                                           14          46          94
                                           10          45          84
                  45          39           12          40          79
                                           14          37          76
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4634cc7e5efc336e2ebd9611e0084dedba64d1d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2029.png]
   (F)   Access to loading area. Each loading berth shall be located so as to
facilitate access to a public street or alley, and shall not interfere with
other vehicular or pedestrian traffic or the function of parking areas. In no
instance shall loading areas rely on backing movements into public rights-of-
way.
   (G)   Surfacing and marking. All required loading areas shall be paved and
maintained in a dust-free condition at all times. Said surface shall be marked
in a manner which clearly indicates required loading areas.
   (H)   Use of required loading areas. The use of all required loading areas
shall be limited to the loading and unloading of vehicles. Said area shall not
be used to provide minimum required parking spaces.
   (I)   Signage. All signage located within, or related to, loading areas
shall comply with the requirements of §
152.235 .
   (J)   Calculation of required loading spaces.
      (1)   Commercial (except offices) and industrial land uses. One loading
berth shall be required for each building having a gross floor area of 10,000
square feet to 29,999 square feet. For such uses located in buildings having a
gross floor area of 30,000 square feet or greater, an additional loading berth
shall be required for any portion of each 50,000 square feet of gross floor
area in addition to the original 29,999 square feet.
      (2)   Office and institutional land uses. One loading berth shall be
required for each building having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet to
99,999 square feet. For such uses located in buildings having a gross floor
area of 100,000 square feet or greater, an additional loading berth shall be
required for any portion of each 100,000 square feet of gross floor area in
addition to the original 99,999 square feet.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** OUTDOOR ADVERTISING AND SIGNS ****
§ 152.235 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish standards for the
fabrication, erection, and use of signs for all properties within the village.
This subchapter regulates the location, type, size, and height of signage based
on the finding that such regulation furthers six compelling governmental
interests:
      (1)   To promote the public welfare, health, and safety of all persons
using the public thoroughfares and rights-of-way within the village to the
signage displayed thereon, or overhanging, or projecting into such public
spaces;
      (2)   To advance the aesthetic goals of the village throughout the
community, and to ensure the effectiveness and flexibility in the design of,
and the creativity of, the use of such devices without creating detriment to
the general public;
      (3)   To aid in the proper development and promotion of business and
industry;
      (4)   To reduce the visual clutter caused by advertising signage that the
village has determined is a significant cause of unsafe traffic and visibility
conditions;
      (5)   To limit the spread of unattractive strip commercial development,
of which signs are a primary contributor, so as to be respectful of the
reasonable rights of other advertisers and business entities whose messages are
also displayed in such areas;
      (6)   To implement signage recommendations contained within the village’s
comprehensive plan.
   (B)   Furthermore, the village advocates that this subchapter leaves ample
and adequate channels of commercial speech communication for the messages
portrayed on such advertising signage—including but not limited to print media,
broadcast media, and point-of-purchase display—and is narrowly defined so as to
limit any prohibitions on commercial speech on exterior signage.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.236 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   General requirements. Except as otherwise provided in division (I)
below, no sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a sign permit.
This subchapter shall apply and be construed to require a permit for a change
of copy on any sign or for any conversions or changes in the sign structure.
This subchapter shall not apply to repainting with the same sign copy, changing
movable parts of signs which are designed for changes, cleaning, repair, or
other normal maintenance of the sign or sign structure. No new permit is
required for signs which are in place as of the date of the adoption of this
subchapter, and such signs may remain as legal nonconforming uses. Any
alteration or relocation of such signs shall conform to the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   A sign permit fee shall be required for any new sign and any
modifications of any existing sign face or sign structure in an amount
established in §
152.009.
      (2)   Any sign permit granted hereunder may not be assigned or
transferred to any other sign or modified sign face or sign structure.
      (3)   Only those permanent or temporary signs which have been granted a
permit from the appropriate village approval authority, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter may be erected, installed, constructed or
maintained, except those signs specifically exempted from permit requirements
in division (I), below.
      (4)   The owner or tenant may include all such signs at one premise under
one permit.
   (C)   Application procedure. Each initial application for a sign permit
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on a form provided by that office,
prior to installation of a new sign or modification of an existing sign face or
sign structure. Each application shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the permit applicant;
      (2)   The approved site plan for the subject property, per §
152.255 et seq., or if not previously required, a site plan or plot plan for
the subject property showing, at a minimum, the location of the proposed sign,
the location of all existing signs on the subject property and within 100 feet
of the proposed sign, all property lines, parking areas, driveways, public
roads, and buildings;
      (3)   A diagram of the proposed sign listing the height, width, total
square footage, method of attachment, method of illumination, and sign
materials;
      (4)   The subject property’s zoning designation;
      (5)   The total area of all signs on the subject property both before and
after the installation of the proposed sign;
      (6)   The estimated value of the proposed sign;
      (7)   Proof of payment of the appropriate sign permit fee, when required;
      (8)   Any other item of information that may be reasonably required by
the Zoning Administrator for the purpose of application evaluation.
   (D)   Granting and issuance.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the submitted application for
compliance with the requirements of division (C). Upon the receipt of a
complete application, the Zoning Administrator shall review said application
for compliance with the requirements of the remainder of this subchapter, and
shall:
         (a)   For submittals involving change of copy or changes to sign
structure that do not enlarge the sign and for sandwich board signs, the Zoning
Administrator shall, in writing, approve or deny a sign permit based on the
submitted application within ten working days of the acceptance of the complete
application and payment of the required fee;
         (b)   For submittals that are part of larger projects subject to
design review under §
152.255 et seq., the Zoning Administrator shall forward the submittal to the
Planning Commission, and the process for design review and approval in that
section shall be followed for the approval of the proposed sign;
         (c)   For submittals involving a new sign (except sandwich board
signs) but not subject to design review under §
152.255 et seq., the Zoning Administrator shall forward the submittal to the
Planning Commission. Within 30 days of the date the submittal was forwarded
from the Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission shall approve or
disapprove the submittal, or shall request the owner to revise it.
      (2)   Denial of a sign permit shall not result in total or partial
reimbursement of permit fees paid.
   (E)   Basis for granting. In deciding whether or not to grant the issuance
of a sign permit, the appropriate village approval authority shall determine
whether the proposed sign is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and with all provisions of this code, including those related to traffic
safety, traffic visibility, sign setbacks, and structural integrity.
   (F)   Enforcement and revocation.
      (1)   Upon notice and after a public hearing conducted by the Planning
Commission, any permit may be revoked by the Planning Commission in the event
that the applicant has failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter
or any conditions that may have accompanied the permit at the time of granting.
      (2)   Any sign permit issued by the appropriate village approval
authority shall be null and void and automatically revoked in the event that
construction, installation, or manufacture of the sign has not been commenced
within 180 days from the date of the granting of such permit. If work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 90 days any
time after the work is commenced, the original permit shall become null and
void. A new permit shall first be obtained to complete the work, and a new
permit fee shall be required.
      (3)   The sign(s) subject to any revoked permits shall be removed by the
licensee within 45 days of such revocation.
      (4)   Revocation shall not result in total or partial reimbursement of
permit fees paid.
   (G)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person affected by a decision of the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission may petition for a hearing before the Village Board within
ten days after the decision is served upon the applicant. The filing of such
petition automatically stays removal of any sign involved and already legally
erected until the Board decides whether to sustain, modify or withdraw the
notice. This decision shall be made by the Board at a public hearing, of which
the owner of the sign and petitioner for the appeal shall have reasonable
written notice. At the hearing, all persons shall have a reasonable opportunity
to show cause why the decision of the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission should be overturned or upheld.
      (2)   Any person, including the village, aggrieved by the Village Board’s
decision may seek judicial review thereof in any court of competent
jurisdiction as provided by Illinois Statutes.
   (H)   Removal of defective or dangerous signs by the village.
      (1)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that any sign exists in
violation of §
152.242 or §
152.243, then the Zoning Administrator shall notify the sign permit holder or
the owner of the property on which the sign is located that such violation must
be corrected within ten days of receipt of such notice on penalty of automatic
revocation of any sign permit previously granted and summary removal of the
sign by the village at the expense of the owner of the property.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator causes such notice to be sent and the
violation is not corrected within ten days, the Zoning Administrator shall
revoke any sign permit for the defective or dangerous sign and it shall be the
duty of the Zoning Administrator to remove such sign. The expense of removing
such sign shall be charged to the owner of the property on which the sign is
located. If the owner fails to pay such expense within one month of being
billed therefor, or has not made arrangement for payment satisfactory to the
Village Attorney, then such expense shall become a lien on the property and
shall be placed upon the tax roll.
   (I)   Signs allowed without permit. The following sign uses and purposes are
permitted in all zoning districts without the need for a sign permit. Such
signs shall not count as part of the maximum permitted sign area as regulated
by
Table 152.240.
      (1)   Signs in the nature of cornerstone or commemorative or historical
markers erected by a public or nonprofit organization.
      (2)   Signs required or authorized by any law, statute, or ordinance, or
which are designed to identify any public area or installation or which give
notice of any traffic regulation or hazard.
      (3)   Nameplates or address plates of not more than two square feet in
area.
      (4)   Informational signs placed in or upon telephone booths by the
telephone company owning such booths.
      (5)   On-premise directional signs which bear only the business name or
logo and if under four square feet in area.
      (6)   Temporary signs which conform to the requirements of §
152.241.
      (7)   Auxiliary signs if under four square feet in area.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.237 SIGN TYPES AND MEASUREMENT.
   The following standards and terms shall be used in this section to assist in
the establishment of clear signage regulations.
   (A)   Definition. The general definition of a SIGN is as provided in §
152.008. Definitions of particular functional, locational, and structural types
of signs are listed in this subchapter. Traffic control and other public agency
signs located within a right-of-way are not included within this definition and
are not regulated by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Sign purposes.
      (1)   Advertising sign, off-premise. A sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered
elsewhere than upon the premises where the sign is displayed. Advertising signs
include billboards. No new off-premise advertising signs shall be permitted
within the village, as provided by §
152.238(A)(10).
      (2)   Auxiliary sign. A sign which provides special information such as
price, hours of operation, parking rules, or warning and which does not include
brand names, or information regarding product lines or services. It may contain
a business logo if the logo is under one square foot in area. Examples of such
signs include directories of tenants in buildings, “no trespassing” signs, menu
boards, and signs which list prices of gasoline, up to one price listing sign
per type of fuel, which must be displayed on a single structure.
      (3)   Business sign, on premise. A sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, offered, or
manufactured upon the premises where the sign is located. Refer to §
152.240  for more detailed regulations.
      (4)   Community information sign. A permanent sign approved with a
special use permit which may have changeable copy and which is limited to the
display of information of interest to the general community regarding scheduled
public events and public activities. Refer to §
152.238(B) for more detailed regulations.
      (5)   Directional sign, off-premise. A sign which indicates only the
name, direction, and/or distance of an institutional facility. Refer to §
152.238(A)(7) for more detailed regulations. This definition does not pertain
to off-premise advertising signs, which are prohibited under §
152.238(A)(10).
      (6)   Directional sign, on premise. A sign which indicates only the name
or logo of the business (if under two square feet) and/or direction of a
pedestrian or traffic facility, or a particular building within a complex of
structures, on the property on which said facility or building is located.
Refer to §
152.238(A)(12) for regulations.
      (7)   Group sign. A sign displaying the collective name of a group of
uses such as the title of a shopping center, office park, or industrial park
and its tenants. No sales or price information shall be permitted. Portions of
the sign containing names of individual tenants shall be considered as part of
the area of a group sign. Group signs shall only be permitted within
developments serving two or more non-residential tenants, and shall limit
information to the name and logo of the development and its businesses.
      (8)   Identification sign.  A sign indicating the name and/or address of
the tenant of the unit or manager of the property located upon the residential
premises where the sign is displayed. Refer to §
152.239 (A) for regulations.
      (9)   Temporary sign. A sign or advertising display (including festoons,
pennants, banners, pinwheels and similar devices) intended to be displayed for
a certain limited period of time. Included in the definition of TEMPORARY SIGNS
are retailers’ signs temporarily displayed for the purpose of informing the
public of a sale or special offer. If a sign display area is permanent but the
message  displayed is subject to periodic changes, that sign shall not be
considered as temporary. A mobile or portable sign shall not be considered a
temporary sign or used for such a purpose. Refer to § 152.241 for more detailed
regulations.
   (C)   Sign configurations.
      (1)   Advertising vehicle sign. No vehicle or trailer shall be parked on
public rights-of-way or on private properties so as to be seen from a public
right-of-way, which attached to or located thereon is any sign or advertising
device for the basic purpose of providing advertisement of products or
directing people to a business activity located on the same or nearby property
or any other premise. Business vehicles which contain typical business signage
and which are actively used for business purposes are exempt from this
prohibition. Refer also to §
152.238(A)(9).
      (2)   Awning sign.  A sign mounted to an awning or canopy on the side of
a building. Such signs shall be counted as a projecting sign and the message
shall not exceed 5% of the awning/canopy area.
      (3)   Freestanding sign. A self-supporting sign resting on or supported
by means of poles, standards, or any other type of base on the ground,
sometimes referred to as a ground-mounted sign. This type of sign includes
monument signs and pylon signs, where permitted (refer to division (C)(6) and
(9), below). The height of a freestanding sign shall be measured per division
(D). Refer also to §
152.238(A)(13).
      (4)   Marquee sign. A type of projecting, on-building sign sheltering the
entrance and/or entrance approaches of a theater, auditorium, fairground,
museum or other use, which advertises present and scheduled events.
      (5)   Mobile sign. A sign mounted on a frame or chassis designed to be
easily relocated, including vehicles and/or trailers whose principal commercial
use is for signage. These are prohibited. Refer also to §
152.238.
      (6)   Monument sign. A type of freestanding sign with a bottom edge
located within one foot of a ground-mounted pedestal. The base or support(s) of
any and all monument signs shall be securely anchored to a concrete base or
footing. The sign shall not be erected so that it impedes visibility for safe
pedestrian and/or vehicular circulation. The footing and related supporting
structure of a freestanding sign including bolts, flanges, brackets, and the
like shall be concealed by the sign exterior, masonry covering, earth and
permanent groundcover, or landscaping. See also §
152.238(A)(1) and §
152.238(C)(1).
      (7)   Personal greeting and congratulatory sign. A temporary sign which
is limited to 32 square feet, and to a non-commercial, personal greeting or
message used to announce, congratulate, or greet members of a family, friends,
or work staff.
      (8)   Projecting sign. A type of on-building sign, other than a wall
sign, which is attached to a building face, shall not be greater than 12 square
feet in area, and shall not project more than three feet generally
perpendicular from a building face. The bottom edge of such sign shall be
located a minimum of eight feet from ground level directly under the sign. Such
sign shall be mounted directly to the building. In no instance shall such sign
be projecting into and over public right-of-way or private street, drive or
parking area, except within the CR District. Refer also to §
152.238 (C) (4).
      (9)   Pylon sign. A type of freestanding sign the bottom edge of which is
located more than one foot above a ground-mounted pedestal, or whose top edge
is located more than six feet high. The height of a pylon sign shall be
measured from the average ground level adjacent to the sign to the top of the
sign. Pylon signs may not be permitted in all areas.
         (10)   Roof sign. A type of on-building sign attached to the roof of a
structure. No roof signs are allowed, except where specified in §
152.238(C)(2).
         (11)   Sandwich board sign. A sign designed to be self-supporting by
means of an easel construction, and displayed on the ground or paved surface,
with a minimum height of three feet, and not to exceed six feet in height or 2½
feet in width. Placement of a sandwich board sign must allow safe passage on
the sidewalk per ADA requirements. The total sign area of a sandwich board
sign, when combined with that of existing signs, shall not exceed the maximum
allowable total signage area per
Table 152.240.
         (12)   Wall sign. A type of on-building sign mounted parallel to a
building facade or other vertical building surface. Wall signs shall not
project more than 12 inches beyond the edge of any wall or other surface to
which they are mounted. The height of a wall sign shall be measured from the
base of the building below the sign to the top of the sign face. The top of the
sign shall be no higher than the nearest portion of the building to which it is
mounted, except where specified in §
152.238(C)(2).
   (D)   Sign measurement.
      (1)   Ground level. The average elevation of the ground upon which the
sign supports are placed, except when the sign supports rest upon a berm or
other area elevated above the surrounding ground. In such cases, the average
elevation of the base of such berm or other area shall be considered as the
ground level.
      (2)   Sign area. Sign area shall be measured in the following manner:
         (a)   In the case of a sign placed within a frame, a marquee sign, or
other structure, sign area consists of the entire surface area of the sign on
which copy could be placed. The supporting structure or bracing of a sign,
including the supports of freestanding signs not used for copy, shall not be
counted as a part of the sign face area unless such structure or bracing is
made a part of the sign’s message. Where a freestanding sign has two or more
display faces, the total area of all of the display faces which can be viewed
from any single location shall be considered the sign face area.
         (b)   In the case of a sign on which the message is fabricated
together with the background which borders or frames that message, sign face
area shall be the total area of the entire background.
         (c)   In the case of a sign on which message is applied to a
background which provides no border or frame (such as individual letters to a
building face or awning), sign face area shall be the combined areas of the
smallest rectangles which can encompass each word, letter, figure, emblem, and
other element of the sign message per a scaled, fully dimensioned drawing
approved by the appropriate village approval authority. Where such drawing is
not provided, said area shall be the smallest area enclosed in a single
rectangle.
         (d)   The following illustration demonstr ates how sign face area is
measured.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4634cc7e5efc336e2ebd9611e0084dedba64d1d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2037.png]
 
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.238 GENERAL SIGNAGE STANDARDS.
   These regulatio ns apply to signs in all zoning districts.
   ( A)   Sign prohibiti ons and limitations.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected, relocated, or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window, or fire escape, and no sign
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      (2)   No private sign shall be attached to or painted on any natural
feature (e.g. tree or rock), fence, public utility pole, public light pole or
traffic regulatory structure, except for “no trespassing” signs placed on
utility poles or trees.
      (3)   No fluttering, undulating, swinging, rotating, or otherwise moving
signs, pennants or other decorations shall be permitted.
      (4)   No illuminated flashing signs shall be permitted. Flashing signs
are those which change their appearance more than once every 30 seconds.
Electronic message center signs and time/temperature signs require Planning
Commission approval as described in §
152.236 (D)(1)(c). Chasing lights shall not be allowed.
      (5)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted unless the illumination of
the sign is so designed where the lighting element (except for neon signs) is
visible from any property within a residential zoning district.
      (6)   No mobile or portable signs shall be permitted.
      (7)   No off-premise directional signs shall be permitted for non-
governmental or non-institutional uses. See also §
152.238(B) for more detailed regulations.
      (8)   No inflatable signs shall be permitted as a permanent sign.
      (9)   No advertising vehicle signs shall be permitted. Refer also to §
152.237(C)(1).
         (10)   No off-premise advertising signs shall be permitted except for
highway information signs per applicable State of Illinois Statutes. Existing
legal off-premise advertising signs made nonconforming by this subchapter shall
be permitted to continue as legal, nonconforming structures. These signs may
not be relocated, structurally modified, or replaced if damaged to over 50% of
the original construction value.
         (11)   Window obstruction by interior signs shall not exceed more than
50% for any one window, nor more than 10% for all combined window areas on the
same facade of the structure. Area devoted to signage within windows shall not
count toward the sign area maximum permitted for the use.
         (12)   For each parking area that has a capacity for more than five
cars, one sign, not more than four square feet in area shall be allowed to
designate each entrance and/or exit; and one sign, not more than nine square
feet in area, shall be allowed to designate the conditions of use of the
parking area. Signs designating handicapped parking stalls shall be exempt from
this provision.
         (13)   The base or support(s) of any and all freestanding signs shall
be securely anchored to a concrete base or footing, except for public and
institutional street and directional signs installed in public rights-of-way.
The footing and related supporting structure of a freestanding sign including
bolts, flanges, brackets, and the like shall be concealed by the sign exterior,
masonry covering, earth and permanent groundcover, or landscaping.
   (B)   Community information signs.
      (1)   Community information signs shall be permitted only by Zoning
Administrator approval within all zoning districts and upon any private
property. The proposed size, configuration, and design of the sign shall be
described as part of the application.
      (2)   Such sign shall only display information regarding events and
information of general interest to the residents of Rockton. Copy which may be
considered as advertising a product, private or restricted participation event,
or activity for private profit shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Such sign may be located on private or public property, including
rights-of-way if allowed by the specific special use permit granted.
      (4)   Such sign shall conform to the visibility requirements of §
152.238(C) and §
152.242.
      (5)   Such sign shall not be counted as adding to the area of signage on
the subject property for the purposes of regulating sign area per §
152.240.
   (C)   Sign location requirements.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by
reason of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape, or color it may
obstruct, impair, obscure, interfere with the view of, or be confused with, any
authorized traffic control sign, signal or device, nor shall such sign make use
of words such as “stop,” “look,” “drive-in,” “danger,” or any other word,
phrase, symbol, or character in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse users of streets or highways. Freestanding signs may not locate within
vision triangles nor otherwise impede traffic or pedestrian visibility.
      (2)   No sign shall be mounted on, displayed on, or extend above the
roof, if attached to the building. The appropriate village approving authority
may make exceptions for roof signs in the CR District which are used to and
contribute to greater streetscape continuity among buildings of differing
heights (e.g., on top of one story building adjacent to two-story buildings).
      (3)   Private signs shall be allowed over street pavement only by
permission of the Planning Commission, in consideration of the advice and rules
of the appropriate village, county, and state authorities.
      (4)   Projecting signs located over a vehicle circulation area shall not
be permitted.
      (5)   Freestanding sign setbacks from right-of-way lines vary by zoning
district, as provided under §
152.239 and §
152.240. On-premise directional signs less than three feet tall shall be
located a minimum of one foot from a property line.
      (6)   Aside from freestanding signs, all signs shall have a minimum
clearance from grade of eight feet to the bottom of the sign and shall not
project beyond the curb line.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.239 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In all residential zoning districts, signage shall be permitted per the
requirements of §§
152.235 to
152.238 and §§
152.241 to
152.244 and per the following:
   (A)   Identification sign.
      (1)   For one-family, two-family, three-family or four-family dwelling:
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign;
         (b)   Maximum permitted number per lot: One;
         (c)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Two square feet.
      (2)   For a multi-family dwelling of five or more units:
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or monument sign;
         (b)   Maximum permitted number per lot: One monument or one wall per
dwelling unit;
         (c)   Maximum permitted area per sign: 12 square feet.
      (3)   For multi-building residential development, subdivision or
institutional use:
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or monument sign;
         (b)   Maximum permitted number per development: One per development,
subdivision or use;
         (c)   Maximum permitted area per sign: 32 square feet;
         (d)   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet;
         (e)   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines: Eight
feet.
   (B)   Auxiliary sign (such as “Beware of Dog” or “No Trespassing”).
      (1)   Permitted sign type: Wall or freestanding sign;
      (2)   Maximum permitted number per lot: Two;
      (3)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Two square feet;
   (C)   On-premise directional sign (for multi-family, multi-building
development, or institutional use).
      (1)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or monument sign;
      (2)   Maximum permitted number per lot: One sign for each vehicular
entrance, one sign for each vehicular exit (if one-way), and one sign for each
parking area conditions list;
      (3)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Four square feet for general
directional signs, and nine square feet for parking area conditions list.
   (D)   Temporary sign. Temporary signs are allowed per the requirements of §
152.241.
   (E)   On-premise business sign. As allowed for a legal, nonconforming
business only, signs shall comply with the provisions otherwise applicable to
the CN District in §
152.240 .
   (F)   Off-premise directional sign (for institutional use only).
      (1)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or monument sign;
      (2)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Four square feet. A special use
permit is required for off-premise directional signs larger than four square
feet in area.
   (G)   Community information sign. Community information signs shall comply
with the provisions of §
152.238(B).
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.240 REGULATIONS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In all nonresidential zoning districts, signage shall be permitted per the
requirements of §§
152.235 to
152.238 and §§
152.241 to
152.244 and per the following:
   (A)   Signage for residential uses. Signage for all residential and
institutional land uses (e.g., churches, schools, government buildings) within
nonresidential zoning districts shall comply with provisions of §
152.239 .
   (B)   Signage for nonresidential uses (all office, commercial and industrial
land uses).
      (1)   On-premise business signs (also see
Table 152.240):
         (a)   For AG and UT Districts:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall) sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot of signage
for every linear foot of exposed exterior wall length on that supporting wall,
or 50 square feet per building, whichever is greater.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding (monument) sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: 32 square feet for all
combined sign faces seen at one time. The assignment of permitted sign area to
individual businesses on the same lot will be at the discretion of the property
owner.
               c.   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet.
               d.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines:
Eight feet.
         (b)   For CG District:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall, projecting or awning)
sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: One per each business
located on the lot.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot of signage
for every linear foot of exposed exterior wall length on that supporting wall.
The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses within the same
building will be at the discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Permitted location: On the facade which includes the main
customer entrance to the business, except that if such facade is directly
adjacent to a residentially zoned property, another wall may be selected.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot or group development: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot for every
one linear foot, up to 32 square feet for all combined sign faces seen at one
time. The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses within the
same lot will be at the discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet.
               d.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines:
Eight feet.
         (c)   For CH District:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall, marquee or awning)
sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: Two per each business
located on the lot, with no more than one sign per business per facade.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One and one-half square
feet of signage for every linear foot of exposed exterior wall length on that
supporting wall. The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses
within the same building will be at the discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Permitted location: On any facade which is visible from a
public street except facades which are directly adjacent to a residentially
zoned property.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot or group development: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot of signage
for every one foot of adjacent public street frontage of the lot, up to a
maximum sign area of 96 square feet for all combined sign faces seen at one
time. The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses on the
same lot will be at the discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Maximum permitted sign height: 20 feet. Signs exceeding 20
feet in height may be allowed by special use permit.
               d.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines: Ten
feet.
         (d)   For CN District:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall, projecting or awning)
sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: One per each business
located on the lot.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot of signage
for every linear foot of exposed exterior wall length on that supporting wall,
with a maximum of 50 square feet per business. The assignment of permitted sign
area to individual businesses within the same building will be at the
discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Permitted location: On the facade which includes the main
customer entrance to the business, except that if such facade is directly
adjacent to a residentially zoned property, another wall may be selected.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot or group development: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot for every
one linear foot, up to 32 square feet for all combined sign faces seen at one
time. The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses within the
same lot will be at the discretion of the property owner.
            3.   Maximum permitted sign height: Six feet.
            4.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines: Six
feet.
         (e)   For CR District: In order to maintain the historic character of
downtown Rockton, unique standards in relation to size, color, material, and
illumination for the CR District are as follows:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall, awning or projecting)
sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: Two per each business
located on the lot.
               b.   Maximum permitted area: No more than one square foot of
signage for every 20 square feet of the total area of the building facade on
which the sign is to be located, up to a maximum of 32 square feet per
business. The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses within
the same building will be at the discretion of the property owner.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding monument sign, defined as
having a solid base made of stone, brick, metal, or other high-density material
but not including an exposed pole or post.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot or group development: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: Two square feet of signage
for every one linear foot of the monument sign, up to 32 square feet for all
combined sign faces at one time. The assignment of permitted sign area to
individual businesses within the same lot will be at the discretion of the
property owner.
               c.   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet.
               d.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines:
Eight feet.
            3.   Permitted sign colors: Fluorescent, “day glow,” neon and other
loud colors shall not be permitted. Where such colors constitute a component of
a standardized corporate theme or identity, muted versions of such colors shall
be used. Color schemes and lettering styles shall be used consistently on all
signage throughout the property. Preferred lettering colors are ivory, white or
gold, and with preferred background colors being darker shades.
            4.   Permitted sign materials: Permitted sign materials include
wood, brass, metal leaf, metal plates, canvas or related fabric, etched glass,
stone or concrete. High-quality, textured, low reflectance plastic may be
allowed, but internally illuminated plastic signs are not permitted. High gloss
paints, lacquers, varnishes or other shiny non-glazing surfaces, including
smooth plastics and related materials shall not be used.
            5.   Permitted sign illumination: Illumination of exterior signage
shall be limited to direct illumination from a shielded light fixture or
individual solid letters with internal lighting tubes that backlight the wall
in a “halo” effect. The lighting element of all such fixtures shall not be
visible from public rights-of-way or adjoining properties. Internally
illuminated signs, including illuminated awnings with or without messages, are
not permitted, including neon and related illumination systems.
            6.   Permitted sign location: Signs shall not be located on any
portion of upper stories, except for roof signs or wall signs exceeding the
roofline used to and contribute to greater streetscape continuity among
buildings of differing heights (e.g., on top of one story building adjacent to
two-story buildings). The location of signs shall be integrated with, and not
cover, architectural elements and details. Projecting signs and awning signs
shall not be located to impede visibility of other signs. The following
illustration shows permitted wall sign locations.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4634cc7e5efc336e2ebd9611e0084dedba64d1d2/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2047.png]
 
         (f)   For IL, IG, and IH Districts:
            1.   Permitted sign type: On-building (wall) sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: Two per each business
located on the lot, with no more than one sign per business per facade.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot of signage
for every linear foot of exposed exterior wall length on that supporting wall,
with a maximum of 64 square feet per sign. The assignment of permitted sign
area to individual businesses within the same building will be at the
discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Permitted location: On any facade which is visible from a
public street except facades which are directly adjacent to a residentially
zoned property.
            2.   Permitted sign type: Freestanding sign.
               a.   Maximum permitted number per lot: One.
               b.   Maximum permitted area per sign: One square foot per one
linear foot, up to 64 square feet for all combined sign faces seen at one time.
The assignment of permitted sign area to individual businesses within the same
lot will be at the discretion of the property owner.
               c.   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet.
               d.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines:
Eight feet.
            3.   Permitted sign type: Identification sign (for industrial
park).
               a.   Permitted sign type: Monument sign.
               b.   Maximum permitted number per development: One per entrance
to an industrial park.
               c.   Maximum permitted area per sign: 32 square feet.
               d.   Maximum permitted sign height: Eight feet.
               e.   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines:
Eight feet.
         (g)   For PUD Districts: Permitted sign types, number, area, location
and other characteristics shall be per an approved specific implementation plan
under §
152.200. No signage which is not shown on an approved specific implementation
plan for a planned unit development project, or an amendment thereto, shall be
located on any site zoned PUD.
      (2)   Auxiliary signs (such as required gas price signs or “no
trespassing” signs).
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or freestanding sign.
         (b)   Maximum permitted number per lot: Per approved site plan and the
requirements of §
152.237(B)(2).
         (c)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Combined area of all auxiliary
signs on any lot shall not exceed 50% of the permitted freestanding or on-
building sign area for the lot, whichever is greater.
      (3)   On-premise directional signs.
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or freestanding sign.
         (b)   Maximum permitted number per lot: One sign for each vehicular
entrance, one sign for each vehicular exit (if one-way), and one sign for each
parking area conditions list.
         (c)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Four square feet for general
directional signs, and nine square feet for parking area conditions list.
         (d)   Maximum height: Eight feet.
         (e)   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines: Eight
feet.
      (4)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are allowed per the requirements
of §
152.241.
      (5)   Off-premise directional signs (for institutional facility only):
         (a)   Permitted sign type: Wall sign or monument sign.
         (b)   Maximum permitted area per sign: Four square feet. A special use
permit is required for off-premise directional signs larger than four square
feet in area.
         (c)   Maximum height: Eight feet.
         (d)   Minimum permitted sign setback from all property lines: Eight
feet.
      (6)   Community information signs. Community information signs shall
comply with the provisions of §
152.238(B).
TABLE 152.240: SUMMARY OF MAXIMUM SIGN AREAS AND NUMBERS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS
Zoning Districts Maximum Sign Area/Height             Maximum Number of Signs
                 On-Building Signs Freestanding Signs
          Maximum Sign Area/Height                                                                Maximum
Zoning                                                                               Freestanding Number of
Districts On-Building Signs                                                          Signs        Signs

                                                                                     Up to 32
                                                                                     square feet
                                                                                     for all      1 on-
          Wall only:                                                                 combined     building
AG, UT    1 square foot of sign area per 1 foot of exposed exterior wall length on   sign faces   sign and 1
          that wall or 50 square feet per building, whichever is greater             seen at one  freestanding
                                                                                     time         sign per lot
                                                                                     Maximum
                                                                                     height: 8
                                                                                     feet
                                                                                     1 square
                                                                                     foot per
                                                                                     linear foot,
                                                                                     up to 64     1 on-
                                                                                     square feet  building
          Wall, projecting or awning:                                                for all      sign per
CG        1 square foot of sign area per 1 foot of exposed exterior wall length on   combined     business
          that wall                                                                  sign faces   1
                                                                                     seen at one  freestanding
                                                                                     time         sign per lot
                                                                                     Maximum
                                                                                     height: 8
                                                                                     feet
                                                                                     1 square
                                                                                     foot per 1
                                                                                     foot of the
                                                                                     adjacent
                                                                                     public
                                                                                     street
                                                                                     frontage     2 on-
                                                                                     selected for building
                                                                                     the lot, up  signs per
          Wall, marquee, or awning:                                                  to 96 square business
CH        1½ square feet of sign area per 1 foot of exposed exterior wall length on feet for all 1
          that wall                                                                  combined     freestanding
                                                                                     sign faces   sign per lot
                                                                                     seen at one  or group
                                                                                     time         development
                                                                                     Maximum
                                                                                     height: 20
                                                                                     feet
                                                                                     (greater
                                                                                     than 20 feet
                                                                                     by special
                                                                                     use permit)
                                                                                                  2 on-
          Wall, awning or projecting:                                                New          building
CR        1 square foot of sign area per 20 square feet of building facade area on   freestanding signs per
          that wall, up to 32 square feet for each business in the building          signs not    business or
                                                                                     permitted    group
                                                                                                  development
                                                                                     Up to 32     1 on-
                                                                                     square feet  building
                                                                                     for all      sign per
          On-building:                                                               combined     business
CN        1 square foot of sign area per 1 foot of exposed exterior wall length on   sign faces   1
          that wall; maximum of 50 square feet/business                              seen at one  freestanding
                                                                                     time         sign per lot
                                                                                     Maximum      or group
                                                                                     height: 6    development
                                                                                     feet
                                                                                     1 square
                                                                                     foot per 1
                                                                                     linear foot,
                                                                                     up to 64     2 on-
                                                                                     square feet  building
IL, IG,   Wall only:                                                                 for all      signs per
IH        1 square foot of sign area per 1 foot of exposed exterior wall length on   combined     business
          that wall                                                                  sign faces   1
                                                                                     seen at one  freestanding
                                                                                     time         sign per lot
                                                                                     Maximum
                                                                                     height: 8
                                                                                     feet
 
   NOTE: This table is only a summary of the sign regulations applicable in
nonresidential zoning districts. The text for this subchapter contains more
detailed and specific requirements.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2025-15, passed 6-17-25)
§ 152.241 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs may be erected without a sign permit. However, before
erecting any temporary
sign, the owner or tenant must notify the Zoning Administrator and provide the
name and address of the applicant, a description and location of the sign, and
the time frame for its placement. Only two temporary signs may be displayed on
a lot at any one time. Except as provided under divisions (A) through (F)
below, any one lot is permitted to display temporary signs for a maximum of 30
days within any 12-month period. Furthermore, any one lot is limited to a
maximum of two temporary signs in any 12-month period, with the exception of
political signs. No temporary sign shall count against the requirements for
permanent signs as listed in the previous sections of this subchapter. A mobile
or portable sign is not a temporary sign. The following are allowable temporary
signs:
   (A)   Temporary commercial signs. One commercial sign per lot, indicating a
special or seasonal sale or limited-time occurrence, including “For Sale,” “For
Rent,” or “Garage Sale” signs, not more than six square feet in area for
residentially zoned properties, and 32 square feet for all other properties.
“For Sale” and “For Rent” signs may exceed the 30-day limit.
   (B)   Construction signs. One construction or project identification sign
per project less than five acres, and two construction signs per project over
five acres, listing only the names of the project, the owner, the architects,
contractor and the building. Such signs shall not exceed six feet in height or
32 square feet in area. Such sign shall be removed at completion of the
project.
   (C)   Temporary event signs.
      (1)   For a temporary event of public interest, such as a neighborhood
garage sale or fair operated by a nonprofit organization, one sign may be
located upon the site of the event. Additional signs for such a temporary event
may be placed on a separate private property with written permission of the
property owner submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Each such sign shall not
be over 32 square feet in area. Additional signs for directional purposes only
may be placed on separate private properties with written permission of the
property owner submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Such signs shall not be
erected more than 30 days before the event and shall be removed within five
days after the event.
      (2)   For a temporary event of public interest hosted by and/or held at
an institutional facility, up to four temporary off-premises directional signs
are permitted. Such signs shall not be located in the vision triangle for an
intersection or a driveway. Such signs shall not be attached to natural
features such as trees or rocks, utility poles, street signs, or fire hydrants.
Such signs shall not exceed three feet in height (if ground mounted) and six
square feet in area and the content of the sign shall be limited to the name of
the event, location, direction, and/or distance to the event. Such signs shall
be erected on the first day and removed within two days following the final day
of the event being promoted. No off-premise directional signs shall be
permitted for non-governmental or non-institutional events.
      (3)   Banners promoting public events of village-wide interest displayed
over a public street, alley or highway may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator for a period not to exceed two weeks prior to said public event.
The sponsoring person, firm, organization, or corporation shall provide to the
village a certificate of liability insurance in the amount of not less than
$100,000 each person and $300,000 each occurrence, bodily injury liability; and
$100,000 each occurrence, property damage liability. Banners shall be removed
within two days following the final day of the event being promoted. No such
banners shall be permitted for non-governmental or non-institutional events.
   (D)   Political signs. Temporary political signs are permitted without
restriction so long as they locate per the requirements of this subchapter.
Such signs shall not exceed ten square feet in any residential zoning district.
   (E)   Personal greeting signs. One personal greeting/congratulatory sign per
premises shall be permitted for up to seven days, limited to eight feet in
height and 32 square feet in area and which is not intended for commercial
purposes.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1406, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2024-20, passed 9-17-24)
§ 152.242 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All signs shall be constructed and mounted so as to comply with State
Building Codes.
   (B)   No sign or any part thereof, or anchor, brace, or guide rod shall be
attached, fastened, or anchored to any fire escape, fire ladder, or standpipe.
   (C)   No sign or any part thereof, or anchor, brace or guide rod shall be
attached, erected, or maintained which may cover or obstruct any door, doorway,
or window of any building which may hinder or prevent ingress or egress through
such door, doorway, or window, or which may hinder or prevent the raising or
placing of ladders against such building in the event of fire.
   (D)   No signs shall create a traffic visibility or other safety hazard.
   (E)   All signs must be designed and constructed to withstand winds during
typical Illinois storm events.
   (F)   All freestanding signs shall be designed and constructed with footings
for support of such sign which extend more than 42 inches below the existing
ground level.
   (G)   All signs attached to buildings which are permitted to project away
from the building wall shall be designed and constructed in which the
attachment to such wall extends above a point of bearing with the roof rafters.
   (H)   No illuminated sign shall be erected at any location which is not
designed and constructed to meet the following requirements:
      (1)   All signs shall be constructed and maintained to conform with State
Electrical Codes. All sign permit applications in which electrical wiring and
connections are proposed shall be submitted to the Electrical Inspector. The
Electrical Inspector shall examine the plans and specifications submitted for
the proposed sign and may require additional information relating to the
proposed electrical installation from the applicant. If the Electrical
Inspector determines that the proposed installation complies with local
ordinances relating to the electrical wiring and construction, then the
Electrical Inspector shall approve the application and submit the approved
application to the Zoning Administrator. The appropriate village approval
authority may not approve a sign permit application for an illuminated sign
unless and until approval is received from the Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   Unless an illuminated sign bears the label of approval of a
recognized testing laboratory, all illuminated signs shall be inspected and
approved by the Electrical Inspector on the site prior to the erection of the
sign. No illuminated sign, despite issuance of the sign permit, shall be
erected until the site inspection has been made or waived by the Electrical
Inspector and the sign permit initialed or stamped to show the Electrical
Inspector’s approval.
      (3)   All illuminated signs shall be equipped with a watertight safety
switch, located where electric current enters the sign. All parts covering
service openings to the electrical supply shall be securely fastened.
      (4)   No illuminated sign shall be connected to an electric power source
except by an electrical contractor, unless the only connection to the electric
power source is through a grounded three-prong heavy-duty plug.
      (5)   All freestanding illuminated signs shall be supplied power only by
underground wiring.
   (I)   Signage found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to the provisions of applicable building codes, and §
152.236(H).
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.243 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All signs and structures appurtenant thereto shall be maintained in a
neat and proper state of appearance.
   (B)   Proper maintenance shall be the absence of loose materials (including
peeling paint, paper or other material), the lack of excessive rust, the lack
of excessive vibration or shaking, and the presence of the original structural
integrity of the sign, its frame and other supports, its mounting, and all
components thereof.
   (C)   The repainting, changing of parts, and preventive maintenance of signs
which completely conform to the requirements of this subchapter, and result in
absolutely no change in the appearance of the sign from that originally
approved, shall not be deemed alterations requiring a sign permit.
   (D)   The owner, lessee, or manager of a sign, and the owner of the land on
which the same is located, shall keep grass or weeds and other growth cut and
debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which the sign is
located.
   (E)   The base of signs shall be landscaped so as to conceal footings,
mountings, brackets, and related structural elements.
   (F)   A sign which is improperly maintained or is abandoned or is unsafe or
otherwise exists in violation of this subchapter, shall be removed by the sign
permit holder or the owner of the property on which the sign is located within
three months from the date of disrepair, abandonment, or unsafe condition
unless the sign permit holder or owner receives actual notice from the Zoning
Administrator of the problem, per the requirements of §
152.236(H).
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.244 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of
this subchapter may be continued although the use, size, or location does not
conform with the provisions of this subchapter. However, it shall be deemed a
nonconforming use or structure; and the provisions of this subchapter shall
apply. Nonconforming signs may be maintained. No nonconforming on-premise sign
shall be altered or moved to a new location without being brought into
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. Refer also to division (B)
(1) of this section.
      (2)   Business signs on the premises of a nonconforming use or building
may be continued per division (B), but new signs for such uses shall not be
allowed, nor shall expand in number, area, height, or illumination. New signs,
not to exceed the maximum allowable sign areas under this subchapter, may be
erected only upon the complete removal of all other signs existing at the time
of adoption of this subchapter.
      (3)   Nonconforming signs shall be removed when the principal structure
located on the premises undergoes a change of use, or shall be removed per
division (B). Closing businesses must remove their signs within 60 days of
closing.
      (4)   Signage not in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
shall be subject to the provisions of division (B).
      (5)   Whenever there is a change in the sign user (excluding off-premise
signs existing prior to adoption of this subchapter), sign owner, or owner of
the property on which the sign is located, the new sign user, owner, or new
property owner shall forthwith notify the Zoning Administrator of the change.
No new sign permit is required unless there is modification of the sign face or
sign structure. The sign will continue to be considered nonconforming.
   (B)   Removal of nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Alteration of signs.
         (a)   For the purpose of this subchapter, alteration of a sign is
considered to be any change to the exterior appearance of any part of the sign,
its frame, its supporting structure, or its lighting including changing the
message (except for marquee, community information, or preexisting off-premise
advertising signs), symbols, color, material, height, location, or any other
alterations as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Altering a sign does not include maintaining the existing
appearance of the sign; replacing the sign face or the supporting structure
with identical materials, colors, and messages; changing the message of a
marquee or community information sign; or changing the face of an off-premise
advertising sign.
         (c)   A tenant sign which comprises part of a group sign may be
replaced to accommodate a new tenant sign without triggering the need to bring
the entire group sign, or any of its parts, into compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   All non-conforming signs found not to be in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter shall be removed within 30 days of receiving
written notice of noncompliance and removal from the Zoning Administrator,
except as otherwise provided for in §
152.236(H).
      (3)   The penalties of the village zoning code or state building code may
be applicable to violations of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** DESIGN REVIEW ****
§ 152.255 PURPOSE.
   In order to preserve the natural beauty of the village, design review is
implemented under municipal authority to promote the public health, safety and
welfare. More specifically, design review is intended to enhance the aesthetic
environment and assure that larger development projects are compatible with
neighboring properties and existing development elsewhere within the village.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1500, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.256 PLANS TO BE APPROVED.
   (A)   Application. No zoning permit or building permit for a new structure
or exterior alteration, enlargement or major remodeling of an existing
structure shall be issued until the elevations, the site plan and building plan
have been approved. For projects including new and expanded two-family
residential buildings, multiple-family residential buildings (three or more
units) and nonresidential buildings, the application for plan approval shall be
accompanied by plans as specified in §
152.260.
   (B)   Sign requirements.  No permit for a new permanent sign or change of
the design or enlargement of an existing permanent sign shall be issued until
the drawings have been approved per the requirements of §
152.235  et seq.
   (C)   Fees. If the design review is done in conjunction with a zoning
petition there will be no fee. If the design review is not done in conjunction
with the zoning petition there will be a fee of $100.
   (D)   Security for public property/improvements.
      (1)   No zoning permit or building permit shall issue for any new
construction until the owner or contractor applying therefor shall have filed
in the office of the Village Clerk a construction bond with a corporate surety
to secure the owner’s or contractor’s obligation to complete construction
without causing damage to any public improvements or public property. This
security shall be valid for a period of at least one year in amounts to be
required as follows:
         (a)   For construction of a residential property, security for $5,000
shall be submitted;
         (b)   For construction of a commercial property, security for $10,000
shall be submitted.
      (2)   In the event that construction takes in excess of one year, the
security shall be renewed until such time as the project is completed and
approved. Should damage be caused to any public improvements or public property
and the same not be repaired to the satisfaction of the village within 30 days
of notice being given thereof to the owner or contractor, the security called
for in this section shall be turned over to the village to defray the costs to
the village in completing such repairs. The turn over of such funds shall be in
addition to any other remedies available to the village and shall not relieve
the owner or contractor of liability in excess of the security.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1501, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06; Am. Ord.
2011-3, passed 2-8-11)
§ 152.257 DEFINITIONS.
   The words contained in §§
152.258 through
152.259 shall have the common meaning ascribed to them or such meanings as are
contained within other sections of the code of the village, provided, however,
that the following words shall be interpreted to mean as follows:
   ADJACENT LOTS. Adjacent lots shall be lots which adjoin or share side
property lines or lots in which, although separated by a street, front property
lines overlap another by more than 30%.
   STREETSCAPE. A streetscape is the facades of single-family dwellings on both
sides of a street. The length of a streetscape shall be limited to no more than
20 lots per side of a street. When more than 20 lots per street side exists
without an intervening cross street, the village shall, through one of its
officers or employees, establish those lots which shall constitute a separate
streetscape. In making that determination, the official shall consider that
configuration of lots which shall be most influenced and affected by adjacent
lots. Where possible, physical demarcations such as topography, road
configuration or landscaping shall be utilized in establishing the appropriate
streetscapes. In general, the front orientation of the residence will determine
the applicable streetscape.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1502, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.258 ANTI-MONOTONY CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR ONE-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Similar elevations prohibited on adjacent lots. No two single-family
dwellings of similar front elevation or facade, shall be constructed or located
on adjacent lots; nor shall there be constructed or located single-family
dwellings of similar front elevation or facade constituting more than 20% of
the single-family dwellings in any streetscape. Front elevations or facades
shall be deemed to be similar when there is no substantial difference in roof
lines; and no substantial change in windows of either size, location, or type;
and either no change in the color of materials used (rather than a change in
shade), or no substantial change in the kind of materials.
   (B)   Roof lines.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following differences in the
roof lines of single-family dwellings as seen from the front of the dwelling
shall be deemed sufficient to render buildings containing such changes and
built on adjacent lots to be dissimilar:
         (a)   Changing gable roofs to hip roofs;
         (b)   Changing hip roofs to gable roofs;
         (c)   Providing an intersection gable roof on the main gable roof,
provided that the height of the intersecting roof is at least 50% of the height
of the main roof;
         (d)   Providing an intersecting hip roof on the main hip roof,
provided that the height of the intersecting hip roof is at least 50% of the
height of the main roof;
         (e)   Subject to review by the building official, a shed roof when
used as a front porch roof for a minimum of 50% of the entire width of the
house, excluding area of garage;
         (f)   Subject to review by the building official, a substantial
difference in roof line shall be deemed to exist if the front soffit is
increased significantly and is combined with columns at least six inches in
width or other architectural features of a similar magnitude which reach the
roof line of the highest story;
         (g)   Rotating gable roofs 90 degrees on the building;
         (h)   On a tri-level residence or other building type which has three
independent major roof areas, the changing of two out of three roof lines shall
be acceptable as a substantial change. Acknowledging certain design elements
may prevent the changing of all three roof lines, it is desired that the roofs
with the greatest impact on the streetscape be changed.
      (2)   The following changes shall not be deemed sufficient to make
adjacent structures dissimilar:
         (a)   Gable roof atop hip roof;
         (b)   Hip roof atop gable roof;
         (c)   Small gable or hip projections above windows;
         (d)   Window dormers;
         (e)   Change in soffit overhang or minor variation in eave height;
         (f)   Skylight and cupola.
   (C)   Windows.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following differences in the
size, location, or type of windows shall be deemed sufficient to render
buildings containing such changes and built on adjacent lots to be dissimilar:
         (a)   Changing from single windows to a multiple window arrangement
(ganged units);
         (b)   Changing from multiple window arrangement to single window;
         (c)   Changing the type of windows (e.g. casement to double hung);
         (d)   Providing a bay or bow window in the area of the predominant
window.
      (2)   The addition or subtraction of muntin bars (dividing lights) shall
not be deemed sufficient change to constitute a substantial change in windows:
      (3)   Where because of its size, location or design, one window is the
predominant window on the front elevation or facade, if the size, location or
type of that window is changed to render the dwelling dissimilar, then no other
window need be changed.
   (D)   Construction material or color.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following differences in
construction material between adjacent single-family dwellings as seen from the
front of the dwellings shall be deemed sufficient to render buildings
containing such changes and built on adjacent lots to be dissimilar. When
materials are changed, the change must occur throughout the front facade or
elevation for a minimum of one story in height.
         (a)   Four-inch exposure horizontal siding;
         (b)   Eight-inch exposure horizontal siding;
         (c)   Brick facing;
         (d)   Vertical siding;
         (e)   Stone facing;
         (f)   Stucco/stuccato board and trim.
      (2)   Color change shall be made by significant changes in adjacent
colors. The change must be one of color rather than merely of the shade.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1503, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.259 ADMINISTRATION, VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Administration. The provisions of this section shall initially be
administered by the Zoning Administrator of the village. The Zoning
Administrator shall find single-family dwellings to be similar or dissimilar
utilizing the general standards established in this section. The examples of
similarity or dissimilarity set forth in this section are not intended to
categorize all dwelling designs which may be presented to the Zoning
Administrator. To aid the Zoning Administrator and applicants in the
interpretation of this section, the Zoning Administrator may prepare
illustrative drawings and written descriptions of the manner in which those
provisions have or will be administered.
   (B)   Variances and appeals. In the event a building permit is denied to any
applicant by reason of ordinance, he or she shall have the right to appeal to
the President and Board of Trustees of the village seeking either to overrule
the decision of the official who denied the permit or to seek a variance in the
provisions of this chapter. Upon such appeal being made, and after reasonable
notice to the applicant, a public hearing shall be held by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village where evidence shall be received from both the
applicant and any other interested parties. After receiving and carefully
considering such evidence, the President and Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Order the permit to be issued;
      (2)   Order the permit to be issued if modifications are made in the
design of the building to bring it into conformity with the provisions of this
zoning code;
      (3)   Order the permit to be issued after granting a variance, provided
that such variance shall be limited to those deviations from that section as
shall not affect the general intent of providing streetscapes without
monotonous architectural design; or
      (4)   Deny the petition of the applicant. Along with other factors to be
considered by the Village Board, shall be whether or not the applicant only
desires a variance for a single structure where the request for the variance is
filed or concurred in by an individual who will actually reside within the
single-family home for which the variance is sought.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1504, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.260 DRAWINGS TO BE SUBMITTED—MULTIPLE FAMILY AND NON-RESIDENTIAL
PROJECTS.
   (A)   Applicability. For projects that include two-family residential
buildings, multiple-family residential principal buildings (three or more unit
buildings) and nonresidential principal buildings, or additions thereto, the
owner of the site or his or her authorized agent shall submit plan materials to
the Zoning Administrator prior to or with the application for a building
permit. Submittal of such plan materials will enable the Planning Commission to
determine whether the proposed application meets all the requirements in this
chapter applicable to the project.
   (B)   Required plans. The submittal shall include a site plan, landscape
plan, grading plan, stormwater plan, erosion control plan, public utility plan,
lighting plan, and sign plan, which may be combined on plan sheets as
appropriate. All plans shall include the name of the project; name and contact
information for the developer; name and contact information for the architect,
designer, or engineer; a date; a north arrow; and a scale indicator. All site,
landscape, lighting, grading/stormwater, erosion control and public utility
plans shall be drawn to a scale of at least one inch equals 50 feet, except
where the Zoning Administrator allows reduced scales. All building elevations
shall be drawn to a recognized architectural scale. In total, the petitioner
shall submit 30 copies of submitted plans, at least three of which are full-
sized, for all nonresidential and multiple-family residential principal
buildings, or additions thereto, which shall include the following information:
      (1)   Parcel dimensions and total parcel size;
      (2)   Locations, dimensions, and uses of existing and proposed buildings
and structures, including walls, fences, signs, exterior light fixtures, and
dumpster areas;
      (3)   Locations and dimensions of streets, walkways, and off-street
parking and loading areas, per the provisions of §§
152.215—
152.221;
      (4)   Proposed number of dwelling units, floor area, impervious surface
area, and landscape surface area, and resulting site density, floor area ratio,
impervious surface area ratio, and landscape surface area ratio;
      (5)   Locations, sizes, and species of existing and proposed landscape
plantings per the provisions of §
152.278;
      (6)   Design and materials of trash dumpster enclosures per the
provisions of §
152.281;
      (7)   Locations, dimensions, areas, heights, materials, message and
illumination of all signs, per the provisions of §§
152.235—
152.244;
      (8)   Exterior lighting plan, per the provisions of §
152.296(J);
      (9)   Public utility plan showing the locations, dimensions, and
materials proposed for all sanitary sewer and water mains and laterals;
      (10)   Grading/stormwater plan indicating proposed land contours, finish
floor elevations of all principal buildings, top-of-curb elevations, proposed
drainageways and basins, and storm sewer system meeting all requirements of the
village’s stormwater management regulations;
      (11)   Construction site erosion control plan;
      (12)   Architectural elevations showing the proposed dimensions,
materials and colors for all exterior surfaces of all proposed buildings and
wall and roof mounted lighting and mechanical units;
      (13)   Any other data as required to permit the Planning Commission or
village staff to make their findings.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the drawings to the Planning
Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals and Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1505, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.261 STANDARDS FOR ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW—MULTIPLE FAMILY AND NON-
RESIDENTIAL PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
   All multiple-family residential and non-residential principal buildings
shall meet the following design requirements:
   (A)   Building scale and mass. The size and mass of buildings and structures
in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches, and balconies
shall be designed with consideration of the buildings, public ways, and places
to which they are visually related. The relative proportion of a building to
its neighboring existing buildings, to pedestrians or observers, or to other
existing buildings shall be maintained or enhanced when new buildings are built
or when existing buildings are remodeled or altered.
   (B)   Building facade continuity. Building facades and appurtenances such as
walls, fences, and landscape masses shall, when it is a characteristic of the
area, form cohesive walls of enclosures along a street to ensure visual
compatibility with the buildings, public ways, and places to which such
elements are visually related.
   (C)   Building height and roofs. The height of the proposed buildings and
structures shall be visually compatible with adjacent buildings and not exceed
zoning district height requirements. The visual continuity of roofs and their
contributing elements, such as parapet walls, coping, and cornices, shall be
maintained in building development or redevelopment.
   (D)   Building design proportions. The following shall be used as guidelines
for evaluating building design proportions:
      (1)   The relationship of the width to the height of the front elevation
shall be visually compatible with buildings, public ways, and places to which
it is visually related.
      (2)   The relationship of the width to height of windows shall be
visually compatible with buildings, public ways, and places to which the
building is visually related.
      (3)   The relationship of solids to voids in the front facade of a
building shall be visually compatible with buildings, public ways, and places
to which it is visually related.
      (4)   The relationship of the building to the open space between it and
adjoining buildings shall be visually compatible with the buildings, public
ways, and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   The relationship of entrances and other projections to sidewalks
shall be visually compatible with the buildings, public ways, and places to
which it is visually related.
   (E)   Directional expression. A building shall be visually compatible with
the buildings, public ways, and places to which it is visually related in its
directional character, whether this be vertical character, horizontal
character, or nondirectional character.
   (F)   Materials. Material selection for architectural design shall be based
on the prevailing material already used on existing buildings in the area, or a
different character if identified in the village’s comprehensive plan. No
building shall be permitted where any exposed facade is constructed or faced
with a finished material that is aesthetically incompatible with other building
facades in the area or which presents an unfinished appearance to the public
and surrounding properties. Building elevations clad with a singular exterior
surface material shall provide some additional architectural design element(s)
to break up the plane of the wall. This may be done by the addition of window
(s), gable-end wall treatments, siding design and accent panels, or other
architectural design treatments consistent with the principal building design.
Within the IL Light Industrial District, a minimum of 30% of the front facade
shall be surfaced with masonry, decorative concrete, or wood.
   (G)   Colors. Color shall be selected in general harmony with the existing
area or neighborhood buildings.
   (H)   Story distinctions. The first story of the building should be
distinguished from the second story by means of a horizontal lintel, second
floor overhand or setback, or similar detail.
   (I)   Corner lot buildings. Buildings on corner lots shall continue the
major front elevation design elements around the corner elevation.
   (J)   Vents and mechanical units. All chimney and fireplace vents shall be
enclosed in a chase constructed of materials similar to those materials used on
the building elevations; metal housings designed by the vent manufacturer to
enclose the chimney vents are acceptable. All building-mounted heating,
ventilating, and air-conditioning equipment or changes to existing heating,
ventilating, and/or air-conditioning equipment shall be designed to be integral
with the building architecture and screened from view from public rights-of-
way.
   (K)   Garages and loading docks. Garages and loading docks shall be designed
as integral elements to the building and site, and shall not be the dominant
visual element from public rights-of-way. All loading docks shall be completely
screened from view from public rights-of-way.
   (L)   Design standards in comprehensive plan. The Planning Commission shall
refer to the village’s comprehensive plan or components thereof for building
design recommendations for specific neighborhoods, districts, or building
types.
   (M)   Waiver of standards. The Planning Commission may waive any of the
above standards by a three-quarters vote of members in attendance, but only if
supplemental design elements or improvements, in accordance with the guidelines
of the village’s comprehensive plan, are incorporated into the project to
compensate for the waiver of the particular standard.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.262 ACTION OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the date a completed application is submitted, the
Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove, require the owner to make
revisions to, or table action on the site plan, the landscape plan, the
architectural elevations and the site drawings for all applicable projects. The
Planning Commission may obtain the advice of persons trained in the fields of
architecture, landscape architecture and city planning to aid it in reaching
its decision.
   (B)   Revised drawings shall be reviewed as prescribed in this section and
shall be approved or disapproved by the Planning Commission or additional
revision may be requested.
   (C)   Failure of the Planning Commission to act within 30 days of the date
of submission shall be deemed approval of the drawings. A time extension may be
requested by the applicant and granted by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   In acting on any site plan submittal, the Planning Commission may
recommend conditions upon the issuance of design approval as it deems necessary
to address the following issues:
      (1)   Compliance with the village’s comprehensive plan and applicable
ordinances.
      (2)   The appropriateness of the site layout and buildings in relation to
the physical character of the site and the use of adjoining land uses.
      (3)   The layout of the site with regard to entrances and exits to public
streets, the arrangement and improvement of interior roadways, the location,
adequacy and improvement of areas for parking and for loading and unloading.
      (4)   The adequacy of the proposed water supply, drainage facilities, and
sanitary and waste disposal.
      (5)   The landscaping, building design, and appearance of the completed
site.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1506, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.263 ACTION OF VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Within 30 days following an appeal of a decision of the Planning
Commission, the Village Board of Trustees shall affirm, reverse or modify the
decision, provided however, that if a decision is reversed or modified, the
Village Board of Trustees shall make a finding that the decision is not in
accord with the purpose prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   Failure of the Village Board of Trustees to act within 30 days of the
date of a Planning Commission decision shall be deemed approval of the drawings
approved by the Planning Commission. A time extension may be requested by the
applicant and granted by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1509, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.264 TIME LIMITS.
   If an applicant does not commence construction within one year after Village
Board approval of the drawings associated with the design review process, or
complete construction within two years after such approval, unless an alternate
development phasing plan has been approved by the Village Board, the applicant
may not commence or complete construction until and unless drawings are
resubmitted and approved under the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND BUFFERING ****
§ 152.275 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide minimum landscaping, screening
and buffering standards to protect and improve community appearance, mitigate
the environmental and aesthetic impacts of new development, prevent the
creation of nuisances and health hazards, and improve quality of life in the
village.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1600, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.276 SCREENING.
   (A)   Whenever development cannot be placed in harmony with its
surroundings, adequate screening and distance buffering shall be provided to
make it so. Screening shall be an obscuring wall or fence or other method
approved by the Administrator. The table below indicates those conditions which
are considered inherently disharmonious. Adequate screening shall be provided
at the side of the parcel between conflicting uses by the owner of the
potential disharmonious use.
   (B)   The following uses shall be screened by a solid decorative fence or
compact evergreen hedge not less than six feet in height, with solid gates
where necessary, and shall not be located within a required front yard: In the
General Commercial District or Industrial Districts a use not conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed structure if on a site directly across a
street or alley from the CR District and if found by the Zoning Board of
Appeals to be unsightly.
   (C)   Minimum screening requirements.
 
Use or District Potential Disharmonious Use Height in Feet
Residential     Commercial Districts        6 feet
Residential     Industrial Districts        6 feet
Residential     Commercial Parking Lots     6 feet
Residential     Loading Areas               6 feet
Residential     Utility Station             6 feet
 
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1601, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.277 WALLS AND FENCES.
   (A)   Durable materials. All walls and fences hereafter erected shall be
durable, weather resistant, rust proof and easily maintained. All walls and
fences shall be kept in good condition, plumb and true, and without damage. All
walls and fences shall be designed and constructed to withstand winds during
typical Illinois storm events.
   (B)   Masonry walls. Masonry walls shall be erected on foundations which are
a minimum of 54 inches below grade.
   (C)   Limitation on open grid metal fences. Metallic cyclone-type or other
open grid fences may not be used as required screening between residential uses
and nonresidential uses. Such metallic fences may not be used in front yards
except in industrial districts, and all barbs or prongs shall face toward the
ground.
   (D)   Finished side out. All fences with two sides of different quality and/
or with posts on one side shall be erected in a manner as to face the adjoining
property owners with the higher quality and/or non-post side facing the
adjacent property owner.
   (E)   Fences in Residential Districts. In all Residential Districts, the
front or street yard fence may be constructed only of wood, brick, decorative
stone, split rail or wrought iron, except where comparable alternative
materials are approved by the Zoning Administrator. No chain link or other open
grid metal fences will be permitted in the front or street yard areas. Any
fence within a front or street yard shall be a maximum of 60% opaque. Fences
and walls may be located within in an interior side setback, a rear setback, or
any portion of the residential lot outside of the required setbacks but are
limited to a maximum height of six feet. If applicable, any fence or wall must
be setback from the public sidewalk or path a minimum of one foot.
      (1)   Corner lot. A semi-open (up to 60% opaque) fence or wall limited to
four feet in height, or a closed fence or wall limited to three feet in height,
may be located in any portion of a corner side setback. A fence or wall,
limited to six feet in height, may be located in a corner side setback from the
wall of the principal structure associated with the rear yard to the rear
property line to enclose the corner side yard.
      (2)   Reverse corner lot. A semi-open fence or wall limited to four feet
in height, or a closed fence or wall limited to three feet in height, may be
located in any portion of a reverse corner side setback. A fence or wall,
limited to six feet in height, may be located in a corner side setback from the
wall of the principal structure associated with the rear yard to the rear
property line to enclose the corner side yard subject to the fence being
setback two-thirds of the front yard setback for the lot to the rear.
      (3)   Any six-foot fence must be setback at least two-thirds of the front
yard setback of any adjacent lot.
      (4)   Diagram of lot types.
   (F)   Swimming pool fencing. See §
152.027.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1602, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2022-29, passed 11-15-22)
§ 152.278 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   Landscaped berms or planting strips may be substituted for obscuring walls
or fences when approved by the Administrator. Landscaped berms and planting
strips shall be landscaped with evergreen plants. Plant materials shall be of
such size when planted as to reach the necessary screening height within three
years of planting.
   (A)   Applicability. Any use for which design review is required under §
152.256, or for which a variance is required, shall provide landscaping in
accordance with the regulations of this section, and of §
152.276, except for additions to existing buildings where insufficient
dimensions exist on site.
   (B)   Required landscape plan.  All proposed landscape plantings to be
located on the subject property shall be depicted as to their location, type,
and size at time of planting and maturity.
   (C)   Landscape planting requirements. Landscaping, “living plants,” shall
be provided based on the following requirements for street frontages, paved
areas, building foundations, buffer yards, and general yard areas. These
requirements are additive to each other and any other landscaping or screening
requirements in this chapter. Credit for existing landscape plantings that are
retained and protected with the development of this site shall be allowed. The
point system is described in greater detail in division (E) of this section.
      (1)   Street frontages. One large deciduous tree shall be planted for
each 50 feet of property line along a public street right-of-way and private
streets. Said trees shall be planted in the public terrace equidistant from the
curb and the normal sidewalk line or on the private site within ten feet of the
property line adjoining the public right-of-way, at the discretion of the
village.
      (2)   Paved areas. One large deciduous tree and 60 points of additional
landscaping shall be planted for each 1,500 square feet of paving. Paving is
defined as all hard surfaced areas within the ground plane including but not
limited to parking stalls, driveways, trash enclosure pads, loading docks,
sidewalks, plazas and patios. Plants required in this section shall be
installed within landscaped islands within the paved area or within 15 feet of
the edges of the paved area.
      (3)   Building foundations. One hundred fifty points of landscaping shall
be planted for each 100 lineal feet of exterior building wall. Plants required
by this section must be installed within 20 feet of the building foundation,
and should not include large deciduous shade trees.
      (4)   Buffer yards. There shall be provided and maintained a permanent
buffer yard screen planting along any boundary of a nonresidential zoning
district which adjoins any residential district or use. The plantings shall be
designed to provide an all-season screen, with an opacity of at least 60% at
maturity (80% for outdoor storage facilities). Buffer yard landscaping shall
have a minimum height of three feet at time of planting. The use of berming or
an opaque fence constructed of materials compatible with the building on the
site may be approved by the Plan Commission in addition to or in lieu of
landscaping, per the standards of §§
152.276 and
152.277. The location of buffer yard plantings shall be within 25 feet of the
property line, except where necessary to avoid utility easements.
      (5)   General yard areas. Two hundred additional points of landscaping
shall be planted for each 5,000 square feet of total lot, site or parcel area.
Landscaping required by this standard should be placed where appropriate on the
site, but generally in those areas not covered by other provisions of this
section. At least 50% of the general yard landscaping should be located in
street yards.
      (6)   Other green areas. Green areas of the site not used for landscape
plantings shall be graded and seeded or sodded with an acceptable maintainable
lawn seed mix. Mulch of plantings or planting beds is acceptable provided that
such mulching consists of organic or natural materials. Mulches shall be
installed so that they will not erode, fall, be plowed or otherwise transported
into walks, drives, streets or other hard surfaced portions of the site.
Functional weed barriers shall be installed in all areas to be mulched.
   (D)   Landscaping point credits. Credit for landscape plantings will be
granted based on the following schedule:
      (1)   Large deciduous tree (mature height 25-plus feet): 150 points;
      (2)   Small deciduous tree (mature height less than 25 feet): 60 points;
      (3)   Evergreen tree: 40 points;
      (4)   Shrub (deciduous or evergreen): 20 points;
      (5)   Annual/perennial bed: 20 points per 20 square feet of bed.
   (E)   Minimum landscaping size. At time of planting, plants must be the
following size:
      (1)   Large deciduous tree: 2-inch diameter at breast height;
      (2)   Small deciduous tree: 1½-inch diameter breast height or 5 feet in
height for clump varieties;
      (3)   Evergreen tree: 4 feet in height;
      (4)   Shrub: 18 inches in height;
      (5)   Annual/perennial bed: Minimum 20 contiguous square feet in area.
   (F)   Installation. All landscaping shall be installed consistent with
industry accepted standards, and shall be guaranteed by the applicant or the
applicant’s contractor for two years. Installation shall occur prior to
occupancy or commencement of operations, unless doing so would result in
unsatisfactory plant survival. In this case, landscaping shall be installed
within six months of occupancy or commencement of operations, and the village
may require a performance guarantee, such as a letter of credit, before a
permit for building occupancy is granted and until such landscaping is
installed according to plan.
   (G)   Maintenance. Landscaping required by this section is intended to be a
permanent site improvement. As such, all landscaping shall be continually
maintained in a live state. Maintenance shall include periodic and timely
watering, fertilizing, pruning and any other such normally required
horticulture activity necessary to keep all landscaping in a healthy, safe and
aesthetically pleasing state. Recognizing that over time plants may mature and
die or otherwise expire because of natural or unnatural causes, maintenance
shall include the removal and replacement of dead or dying plants. Such
replacement shall occur within the same year in which a plant dies or in the
spring planting season of the following year.
   (H)   Location in utility easements. Planting in utility easements is at the
risk of the property owner. Any plants that must be removed because of utility
work within such easements shall be replaced by the property owner at his or
her cost.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1603, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.279 REQUIRED SCREENING FOR TRASH AREAS.
   The following requirements shall be met for outdoor trash and garbage
storage, except where residential (curbside) service is provided:
   (A)   Required plan. Where a design review is required for any project under
§
152.256, any and all proposed outdoor trash and garbage storage on the subject
property shall be depicted as to its location, configuration, and screening on
the site plan.
   (B)   Enclosure. All garbage cans, dumpsters, trash and recycling
containers, and other storage devices situated on any property shall be closed
containers with lids. Where such containers are located outside a building,
they shall be completely concealed or screened from public view on at least
three sides by opaque fencing and gates at least six feet in height,
supplemented by screen landscaping. Such fence enclosure shall be constructed
of materials compatible with the materials on the front building wall of the
main building. No portion of the lot shall be used for open or unenclosed
storage of trash or waste of any kind. Any existing screens not meeting the
height requirements need not be replaced solely as a result of the height
requirement. However, once the screening requires substantial repair or
replacement, it must conform with the height requirement of this chapter.
   (C)   Maintenance. Fencing and landscaping for storage areas shall be
maintained in good condition and kept litter-free. All garbage cans, trash
containers, and other garbage storage devices shall be emptied and the contents
properly disposed of not less than once every seven days.
   (D)   Concrete slab. All new outside trash dumpsters shall be placed upon a
dustless, all-weather hard surface such as concrete or asphalt.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1606, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2003-1, passed 1-7-03; Am. Ord.
2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.280 VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER AND ALLEY LOTS.
   Within a triangle formed by two intersecting public street right-of-way
lines and a third line joining a point along each right-of-way line 15 feet
from their intersection:
   (A)   No wall, fence or earth mound shall be permitted which materially
impedes vision above the height of 2½ feet.
   (B)   No greenbelt or vegetation shall be permitted which materially impedes
vision between the height of 2½ feet and 8 feet.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1607, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.281 EXCEPTIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Permanent waivers. In the event that terrain or other natural features
are such that the erection of obscuring berms or planting strips, walls or
fences will not serve the intended purpose, as determined by the Planning
Commission, then no such screening, fences or wall shall be required.
   (B)   Variance. Other modifications of this subchapter may be obtained by
application for a variance.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1608, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** PERFORMANCE STANDARDS ****
§ 152.295 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable
fire, explosive or other hazard; noise or vibration, smoke, dust, odor or other
form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness; electrical or other substance,
condition or element in such a manner or in such amount as to adversely affect
the surrounding area or adjoining premise.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1700, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.296 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The following provisions, standards and specifications shall apply to all
districts:
   (A)   Fire and explosion hazards. All activities involving, and all storage
of, inflammable and explosive materials shall be provided at any point with
adequate safety devices against the hazard of fire and explosion and adequate
fire fighting and fire suppression equipment and devices standard in the
industry. Burning of waste materials in open fires shall be prohibited at any
point. Fire and explosion hazards shall be further subject to applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (B)   Radioactivity or electric disturbances. No activities shall be
permitted which emit dangerous radiation. Radioactive emissions shall be
further subject to applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (C)   Vibration.
      (1)   In nonindustrial districts, no vibration shall be permitted which
is discernible without instruments beyond the property line of the source.
      (2)   In industrial districts, there shall be no operation or activity
which would cause ground transmitted vibrations in excess of the limits set
forth below at the boundary of this district under any conditions, nor beyond
the property line if it would adversely affect any other use within the
district.
 
Maximum Vibration Levels
                            Maximum Permitted Displacement at Industrial
Frequency Cycles per Second District Boundaries
                            (in inches)
0 to 10                     .0008
10 to 20                    .0005
20 to 30                    .0002
30 to 40                    .0002
40 and over                 .0001
 
      (3)   Vibrations shall be further subject to applicable federal, state
and local laws and regulations.
   (D)   Odors.
      (1)   No emission of odorous gases or other odorous matter in such
quantities as to be readily detectable shall be permitted beyond the property
lot lines of the source. Any process which may involve the creation or emission
of any odors shall be provided with a secondary safeguard system so that
control will be maintained if the primary safeguard system should fail.
      (2)   Odors shall be further subject to applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations.
   (E)   Smoke. No emission shall be permitted of visible grey smoke of a shade
equal to or darker than No. 2 on the Ringlemann chart, except that visible grey
smoke of a shade to No. 3 of such chart may be emitted four minutes in any 30
minutes. These provisions applicable to visible grey smoke shall also apply to
visible smoke of a different color but with an apparently equivalent capacity.
Smoke shall be further subject to applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations.
   (F)   Fly ash, dust, fumes, vapors, gases and other forms of air pollution.
No emission shall be permitted which can cause any damage to health, to
animals, to vegetation or other forms of property, or which can cause any
excessive soiling, at any point. No sulfur compound shall be emitted which
would result in a ground level concentration of sulfur dioxide at the property
line or beyond in excess of 1.0 part per million in a 20-minute period of any
hour or average exposure in excess of 0.1 part per million in any eight-hour
period, nor shall any gas be emitted which contains sulfur dioxide in excess of
2,000 parts per million. Fly ash, dust, fumes, vapors, gases and other forms of
air pollution shall be further subject to applicable federal, state and local
laws and regulations.
   (G)   Glare or heat. All lighting shall be arranged so as to deflect light
away from any adjoining residences. No direct or sky-reflected glare, whether
from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as combustion or
welding or otherwise, so as to be visible at the property lot line of the
source shall be permitted. Glare and heat shall be further subject to
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (H)   Liquid and solid waste. No wastes shall be discharged in the public
sewer system which are dangerous to the public health and safety. No waste
shall be discharged into a storm sewer or roadside ditch or drainage area
except clear and unpolluted water. Liquid and solid waste shall be further
subject to applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (I)   Noise.
      (1)   The maximum permissible sound pressure levels at specified points
of measurement for noise radiated continuously from a facility is shown below.
Maximum Sound Levels
                             Maximum Sound Pressure Level
Frequency Bank Cycles/Second Decibels: 0.002 dyne/cm2
                             7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Maximum Sound Levels
                             Maximum Sound Pressure Level
Frequency Bank Cycles/Second Decibels: 0.002 dyne/cm2
                             7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
0–75                       72                      67
75–150                     67                      62
150–300                    59                      54
300–600                    52                      47
600–1200                   46                      41
1200–1400                  40                      35
2400–4800                  34                      29
Over 4800                    32                      27
 
      (2)   Frequencies and sound levels shall be measured with an Octave Band
Analyzer and Sound Level Meter which comply with the USA Standards prescribed
by the United State of America Standards Institute. All noise shall be muffled
or otherwise controlled as not to become objectionable due to intermittence,
duration, beat frequency, impulse character, periodic character or shrillness.
      (3)   Noise shall be further subject to applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations.
   (J)   Lighting. All lighting shall be arranged so as to provide for adequate
and safe lighting of private property, while limiting light spillover and glare
onto adjacent properties and public streets. Such limitations are intended to
prevent the creation of nuisances, promote traffic safety, conserve energy,
preserve the area’s dark sky, and support astronomy activities. No direct or
sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high temperature
processes such as combustion or welding or otherwise, so as to be visible at
the property lot line of the source, shall be permitted. Glare and heat shall
be further subject to applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
      (1)   Applicability. This section shall be applied to the installation of
all new and replacement private outdoor lighting fixtures, and any interior
lighting fixtures that may create a distraction visible
from the exterior. Outdoor lighting fixtures legally installed prior to the
effective date of this section shall not be required to comply with these
outdoor lighting standards; however, any replacement of said lighting fixtures
shall comply with all outdoor lighting standards as set forth in this section.
      (2)   Required lighting plan. Where a development requires site plan
review under §
152.296, all outdoor lighting fixtures shall be depicted and described on the
required site plan or on a separate lighting plan. Depending on the complexity
of the proposal or projected impact of lighting, the village may also require
the following information:
         (a)   A catalog page, cut sheet, or photography of the outdoor
lighting fixtures(s) including the mounting method and light cut-off angles;
         (b)   A photometric plot plan, drawn to the same scale as the site
plan, and indicating the location of all lighting fixtures proposed, mounting
and/or installation height in feet, the average illumination level (in
footcandles) within the parking lot, and illumination levels at regular
intervals around the site and at property lines.
      (3)   Maximum luminaire height. The maximum permitted luminaire height
shall be 25 feet in all residential districts and 35 feet in all other zoning
districts. The height of both the pole and base shall be considered in the
measurement of luminaire height.
      (4)   Maximum illumination levels. Average illumination levels within
parking lots shall not exceed one footcandle within residential districts and
three footcandles within all other districts. The illumination level at any
property line shall not exceed one-half footcandles above the ambient lighting
conditions on a cloudless night where the property is within or adjoins land in
a residential district and two footcandles above the ambient lighting
conditions on a cloudless night where the property is in or adjoins land in any
other zoning district. The Planning Commission may agree to allow greater
lighting levels based on specific and reasonable written justification provided
by the applicant, provided that the purpose of this division (J)(4) is not
compromised.
      (5)   Use of shielded light fixtures. All outdoor lighting fixtures shall
be shielded as defined in §
152.008, except incandescent fixtures of 150 watts or less, lighting within
public street rights-of-way, and lighting required for a specialized security
or safety purpose. No searchlights shall be permitted.
      (6)   Types of light source. No new mercury vapor lighting fixtures shall
be installed, and no replacement equipment or bulbs for pre-existing mercury
vapor lighting fixtures shall be installed. No flickering or flashing lights
shall be permitted, except low wattage seasonal lighting between November 1 and
January 31 and lighting required for a specialized security or safety purpose.
      (7)   Location. No exterior light fixture shall be located within any
required buffer yard or within three feet of any property line.
      (8)   Distracting lighting. Flashing, flickering, and/or other lighting
which may distract motorists, including both exterior lights and interior
lights visible from the exterior, are prohibited.
      (9)   Hours of illumination. Within one hour after closing of the store,
completion of the final work shift, or completion of specific activities
associated with an institutional use, only building mounted security lighting
and up to 25% of all other outdoor lighting fixtures may remain illuminated.
      (10)   Exterior lighting for outdoor recreational uses. Ball diamonds,
playing fields, golf driving ranges, tennis courts, parks, and similar outdoor
recreational uses may be exempted from one or more of the outdoor lighting
standards of this section if approved by the Planning Commission through design
review.
      (11)   Street lighting. Street lighting shall conform to the standards
set forth by the State of Illinois for state and federal highways, Winnebago
County for county highways, and the Village of Rockton of Township of Rockton
for other streets and highways located within the village.
      (12)   Nonconforming lighting. All lighting fixtures existing prior to
the effective date of this section which do not comply with the provisions of
this section shall be considered as legal nonconforming structures. All
replacement fixtures shall fully comply with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1701, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.297 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Measurement. The determination of the existence of any objectionable
elements shall be made at the location of the use creating the same and at any
points where the existence of such elements may be more apparent; provided,
however, that the measurements necessary for enforcement of performance
standards set forth in this subchapter shall be taken at property line
boundaries.
   (B)   Notification. The Administrator shall give written notice, by
registered mail or other means ensuring a signed receipt for such notice, to
the person or persons responsible for the alleged violation. The notice shall
describe the particulars of the alleged violation and the reasons why the
Administrator believes there is a violation in fact, and shall require an
answer or correction of the alleged violation to the satisfaction of the
Administrator within a time limit set by the Administrator. The notice shall
state, and it is hereby declared, that failure to reply or to correct the
alleged violation to the satisfaction of the Administrator within the time
limit set constitutes admission of violation of the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   Costs of determination. The notice shall further state that upon
request of those to whom it is directed, technical determinations as described
in this chapter will be made, and that if violations as alleged are found,
costs of such determinations shall be charged against those responsible for the
violation, in addition to such other penalties as may be appropriate, but that
if it is determined that no violation exists, the costs of the determination
will be paid by the village.
   (D)   Violation corrections. If there is no reply within the time set, but
the alleged violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the Administrator, he
or she shall note “violation corrected” on his or her copy of the notice and
shall retain it among his or her official records, taking such other action as
may be warranted.
   (E)   Enforcement. If there is no reply within the time limit set (thus
establishing admission of violations) and the alleged violation is not
corrected to the satisfaction of the Administrator within the time limit set,
he or she shall proceed to take or cause to be taken such actions as are
warranted by continuation of a violation after notice to cease.
   (F)   Extensions. If a reply is received within the time limit set
indicating that the alleged violation will be corrected to the satisfaction of
the Administrator, but requesting additional time, the Administrator may grant
an extension if he or she deems it warranted in the circumstances of the case
and if the extension will not, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to
life, health or property.
   (G)   Expert findings. If a reply is received within the time limit set
requesting technical determination as provided in this chapter and if the
alleged violations continue, the Administrator may call in properly qualified
experts to make the determinations. If the expert findings indicate violation
of the performance standards, the costs of the determinations shall be assessed
against the properties or persons responsible for the violation, in addition to
such other penalties as may be appropriate under the provisions of this code.
If no violation is found, the costs of the determinations shall be paid by the
village without assessment against the properties or persons involved.
   (H)   Additional enforcement provisions. Even though compliance with
performance standards procedure in obtaining a development permit is not
required for a particular use, initial and continued compliance with
performance standards is required of every use, and provisions for enforcement
of continued compliance with performance standards shall be invoked by the
Administrator against any use, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that
performance standards are being violated by such use.
   (I)   Open burning. This chapter shall not be interpreted to prohibit open
burning of yard waste that has accumulated upon the property where the burning
is occurring in Residential Districts. The fire must be supervised by an adult
and shall be fully extinguished. The burning shall only occur on days when
weather conditions are such that the fire can be contained and that the smoke,
ash and fumes dissipate.
   (J)   Special events. For special events, occasions or circumstances a
burning permit may be issued by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1702, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** HOME OCCUPATIONS ****
§ 152.305 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Home occupations or professions in the Residential Districts shall comply
with the following regulations:
   (A)   There shall be no stock-in-trade other than products manufactured on
the premises unless otherwise recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals by
special use permit as provided for in the respective section of this zoning
code relating to special uses.
   (B)   A home occupation or profession shall be conducted within a dwelling
or within an accessory building and shall not exceed 500 square feet in area.
   (C)   There shall be no outdoor storage of supplies of equipment outside the
building.
   (D)   There shall be no external alteration of the dwelling or accessory
building in which a home occupation is conducted, and the existence of a home
occupation shall not be apparent beyond the boundaries of the site, except for
a nameplate in accord with the provisions of the section of this zoning code
relating to signs in Residential Districts.
   (E)   No other than a resident of the dwelling shall be employed in the
conduct of a home occupation or profession unless otherwise recommended by the
Zoning Board of Appeals by a special use permit as provided for in the
respective section of this zoning code relating to special uses. The special
use permit shall state the specific number of nonresident employees that will
be working in the home occupation in question. Any increase in this number
shall require the issuance of a new special use permit as provided for in the
respective section of this zoning code relating to special uses.
   (F)   No motor power other than electricity operated motors shall be used on
connection with a home occupation.
   (G)   A home occupation or profession shall not create any radio or
television interference or create noise in excess of the standards set forth in
this chapter.
   (H)   No odor, liquid or solid waste shall be emitted.
   (I)   No more than one pick-up truck of not more than one ton capacity and
no other trucks or semi- tractors or semi-trailers incidental to a home
occupation or profession shall be kept on the site.
   (J)   A home occupation or profession shall not create pedestrian,
automobile or truck traffic significantly in excess of the normal amount in the
district.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1800, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** MOBILE HOME PARK ****
§ 152.315 OCCUPANCY.
   No mobile home shall be occupied or used for living or sleeping purposes
unless it is located in a mobile home park, provided that a mobile home may be
used as an office for a construction project, circus or carnival, and provided
that one mobile home may be used for the temporary residence of a watchman on
the site of a construction project, and mobile homes may be used as temporary
residences for circus or carnival personnel, for up to five days in any 365-day
period, when recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals by a special use permit
as provided for by the subchapter in this zoning code relating to special uses.
The special use permit for a temporary mobile home location shall state the
maximum time the mobile home shall be located upon the site in question.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1900, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.316 PRE-APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A mobile home park may be permitted only in the RE Rural Estates
District, subject to obtaining a special use permit in accordance with the
provisions of the respective subchapter in this zoning code relating to special
uses and additional provisions of this section.
   (B)   Prior to filing for a special use permit, all mobile home parks shall
be reviewed by the Planning Commission to determine if they are being located
and designed consistent with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may recommend variations to the design
requirements in the interest of achieving good design and better environmental
living conditions for the residents of the mobile home park. In such cases, the
Planning Commission shall submit a written finding of fact to the Zoning Board
of Appeals in the same manner that the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to
make a finding of facts for variation in the respective section and subchapter
of this zoning code relating to action by Zoning Board of Appeals variation.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1901, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.317 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A mobile home park may be permitted as a special use in the RE Rural
Estates District subject to the regulations as prescribed in §§
152.020 et seq., and as further provided in this section.
   (B)   Mobile home parks may be permitted in the RE Rural Estates District on
parcels or lots of record of not less than 400,000 square feet of area.
   (C)   In addition to divisions (A) and (B), all mobile home parks shall be
developed in accordance with design standards set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1902, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.318 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   There shall be a maximum of four mobile homes per gross acre.
   (B)   There shall be a minimum of 10,000 square feet of site area per mobile
home.
   (C)   A mobile home park shall provide indoor and outdoor community use
facilities and recreational open spaces of which not less than 5,000 square
feet in area for each ten acres or portion thereof shall be developed for
recreational use. The aggregate community use facilities and open spaces shall
not be less than 200 square feet for each mobile home space.
   (D)   Not more than one permanent dwelling unit shall be located in a mobile
home park.
   (E)   All mobile homes or dwelling units shall comply with the residential
requirements for front yard setbacks, side yard, and the like.
   (F)   All accessory structures and accessory uses located on the same site
as a special use shall be permitted upon the granting of a use permit, in
accordance with the provisions of the subchapter of this zoning code relating
to special uses.
   (G)   All streets for automobile circulation shall be a minimum of 30 feet
in width and surfaced with two-inch asphalt or its equivalent and six-inch
compacted aggregate base.
   (H)   A minimum of two improved parking spaces shall be provided for each
mobile home. These parking spaces shall be located on the mobile home site they
are intended to serve.
   (I)   All utilities, including television service, shall be underground.
   (J)   Adequate landscaping shall be provided including trees and shrubs
around the perimeter of the mobile home park.
   (K)   Additional fencing and landscaping, including perimeter fencing along
interior, side and rear lot lines and decorative fencing along street rights-
of-way may be recommended by the Zoning Board of Appeals as part of the mobile
home park special use permit required in §
152.316.
   (L)   A designated storage area for boats, trailers and other items shall be
provided with an aggregate area of 50 square feet per mobile home space and
shall be properly fenced or screened.
   (M)   All units must be connected to public water and sanitary supply
systems.
   (N)   Unless a basement or underground area is available to each dwelling
unit, the developer or park must have a common building which is suitable and
capable of holding all residents as a shelter in the event of a tornado or
other natural disaster.
   (O)   All units must be attached to a cement slab.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 1903, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** DETERMINATION AS TO USES NOT LISTED ****
§ 152.330 PURPOSE AND INITIATION.
   In order to ensure that the zoning code will permit all similar uses in each
district, the Village Planning Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals, upon
its own initiative or upon written request, shall determine whether a use not
specifically listed as a permitted use or a special use in a Residential or
Commercial District shall be deemed a permitted use or a special use in one or
more districts on the basis of similarity to uses specifically listed.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2100, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.331 APPLICATION.
   Application for determination that a specific use should be included as a
permitted use or a special use in a Residential or Commercial District shall be
made in writing to the Zoning Administrator and shall include a detailed
description of the proposed use and such other information as may be required
by the Planning Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals to facilitate the
determination.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2101, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.332 INVESTIGATION.
   The Planning Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals shall make or have
made such investigations as it deems necessary to compare the nature and
characteristics of the proposed use with those of the uses specifically listed
in the code and to make a determination of its classification.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2102, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.333 REFERRAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application for a use determination
to the Planning Commission at least 15 days before the public hearing for
consideration.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2103, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.334 DETERMINATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The determination of the Planning Commission shall include findings and
shall be rendered in writing within 60 days from the date an application for a
use determination was filed, but not less than 15 days prior to the Zoning
Board of Appeals’ public hearing.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2104, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.335 DETERMINATION OF ZONING BOARD.
   The determination of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall include findings and
shall be rendered in writing within 120 days from the date an application for a
use determination was filed, but not less than 15 days prior to the Zoning
Board of Appeals’ public hearing.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2105, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.336 EFFECTIVE DATE OF DETERMINATION.
   Within five days following the date of a decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals on a request for a determination as to a use not listed, the Secretary
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall transmit to the Village Board of Trustees
written notice of the decision. A decision shall become effective ten days
following the date on which the determination was made or on the day following
the next meeting of the Village Board of Trustees, whichever is later, unless
an appeal has been taken to the Village Board of Trustees, or unless the
Village Board of Trustees shall elect to review the decision of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2106, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.337 APPEAL TO THE VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Within ten days following the date of a decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals on a request for a determination as to a use not listed, the decision
may be appealed to the Village Board of Trustees by the applicant or by any
other person. The appeal shall state specifically wherein it is claimed there
was an error or abuse of discretion by the Zoning Board of Appeals or wherein
its decision is not supported by the evidence in the record.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2107, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.338 DETERMINATION BY VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The determination of the Village Board of Trustees shall include findings
supporting the conclusion and shall be rendered in writing within 60 days from
the date of appeal or from the date the Village Board of Trustees elects to
review the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals unless the applicant
consents to an extension of the time period.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2108, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** SPECIAL USES ****
§ 152.350 PURPOSE.
   In order to give the district use regulations of this chapter the
flexibility necessary to achieve the objectives of the zoning code, in certain
districts special uses are permitted, subject to the granting of a use permit.
Because of their unusual characteristics, special uses require careful
consideration so that they may be located properly with respect to the
objectives of the zoning code and with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties. In order to achieve these purposes, the Village Board of Appeals,
with final decision by the Village Board of Trustees, is empowered to grant and
deny applications for such special uses in such districts as are prescribed in
the district regulations and to impose conditions upon the granting of use
permits.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2200, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.351 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   An application for a special use permit shall be filed on a prescribed form
with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the
completed application for a special use to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
application shall contain information as prescribed by the Zoning Administrator
including the following information and material:
   (A)   Name and address of applicant;
   (B)   Statement that the applicant is the owner or the authorized agent of
the owner of the property for which the special use permit is proposed;
   (C)   Address or description of the property;
   (D)   Statement and adequate evidence showing that the proposed special use
will conform to the standards set forth in this chapter;
   (E)   An accurate scale drawing of the site and the surrounding area for a
distance of at least 300 feet from each boundary of the site showing the
location of streets and property lines;
   (F)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee to cover the cost of
processing the application as prescribed:
 
Number of Acres    Fee
Less than 1 acre   $75
1 acres to 5 acres $250
Over 5 acres       $10 for each acre or part thereof over 5 acres not to exceed
                   $600
 
   (G)   The application shall specify the proposed duration that is being
sought for the special use.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2201, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.352 PUBLIC HEARING: NOTICE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at least one public hearing on each
application for a special use permit within 45 days of the date the application
is filed. Notice of the hearings shall be given not less than 15 days nor more
than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village and by notifying the record title owners of
the adjacent property by U.S. Mail at the address from the latest adopted tax
roles. Failure to make said notice by U.S. Mail shall not invalidate the
proceedings.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2202, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.353 REFERRAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application for a special use to
the Chairman of the Planning Commission at least 15 days before the public
hearing for consideration. If the Planning Commission desires to submit a
report and recommendation, it may do so at the time of the public hearing.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2203, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.354 PUBLIC HEARING: PROCEDURE.
   At the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
application and the drawings submitted therewith and shall receive pertinent
evidence concerning the proposed use and the proposed conditions under which it
would be operated or maintained, particularly with regard to the findings
prescribed in §
152.355.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2204, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.355 ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Within 45 days after the close of the public hearing on a proposed
special use, the Board of Appeals shall make written findings of fact and shall
submit the same together with its recommendation to the Village Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   For the Board of Appeals to make an affirmative recommendation on any
proposed special use, it must find that each of the following items are met:
      (1)   That the proposed location of the special use is in accord with the
objectives of the zoning code and the purposes of the district in which the
site is located;
      (2)   That the proposed location of the special use and the conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   That the proposed special use will comply with each of the
applicable provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   The proposed duration of the special use will not be detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2205, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.356 CONDITIONS.
   The Board of Appeals may recommend and the Village Board of Trustees may
require such conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location and
operation of a special use as deemed necessary to secure the general objectives
of this chapter. Such conditions or restrictions may include provisions for the
protection of adjacent property and the expiration of said special use permit
after a specified period of time.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2206, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.357 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   A special use permit application shall be acted upon by the Village
Board of Trustees by ordinance within 45 days upon receipt of the Board of
Appeals’ decision. The Village Board of Trustees may affirm, reverse or modify
a decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals, provided that if a Zoning Board of
Appeals decision recommending denial of a special use permit is reversed or a
decision recommending granting of a special use permit is modified, the Village
Board of Trustees, on the basis of the record transmitted by the Zoning
Administrator and such additional evidence as may be submitted, shall make the
findings of fact that establish that the circumstances prerequisite to the
granting of a special use permit as prescribed in §
152.355 apply.
   (B)   A special use permit shall be passed by a majority vote of the Village
Board. A proposed special use which fails to receive the approval of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall not be granted by the Village Board of Trustees except
by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all of the Village Trustees. A proposed
special use shall be passed only by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all the
Village Trustees if a written protest against the proposed special use is filed
with the Village Clerk, signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of
the frontage proposed to be altered or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across the alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2207, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.358 LAPSE OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   A special use permit shall lapse and shall become void one year
following the date on which the special use permit became effective, unless
prior to the expiration of one year a building permit is issued and
construction is commenced and diligently pursued toward completion or the site
is occupied.
   (B)   A special use permit may be renewed for an additional period of one
year, provided that prior to the expiration of one year from the date when the
special use permit originally became effective, an application for renewal of
the special use permit is filed with the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend approval or denial of an
application for renewal of a special use permit.
   (D)   An application for renewal of a special use permit shall meet all
requirements of an original application for special use permit as contained
within this subchapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2208, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.359 REVOCATION.
   A special use permit granted subject to a condition or conditions shall be
revoked by the Village Board of Trustees if the condition or conditions are not
complied with. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing within
45 days in accord with the procedure prescribed in §
152.352 and §
152.354 and if not satisfied, that the regulation, general provision or
condition is being complied with, may recommend revocation of the special use
permit or the taking of such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance
with the regulation, general provision or condition.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2209, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 3-16-04; Am. Ord.
2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.360 NEW APPLICATION.
   No application for a special use which has been denied wholly or partly by
the Village Board of Trustees shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of said denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of
changed conditions found to be valid by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2210, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.361 SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO RUN WITH THE LAND.
   A special use permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall run with the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change of
ownership of the site or structure which was the subject of the special use
permit application.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2211, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** ZONING PERMIT ****
§ 152.375 PURPOSE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To ensure that each new or expanded use of a structure or site and
each new structure or alteration of an existing structure complies with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and in order that the village may have a
record of each new or expanded use of a structure or site, a zoning permit is
required before any building permit may be issued or any structure or site
used.
   (B)   To ensure that each new sign structure subject to design review as set
forth in §§
152.235 et seq. and §§
152.255 et seq. or requiring a building permit and each enlargement or change
in the design, lighting or movement of a sign subject to design review as set
forth in §§
152.235 et seq. and §§
152.255 et seq. or requiring a building permit complies with all applicable
provisions of this chapter, a zoning permit is required before the sign may be
displayed or altered or before a building permit may be issued.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2400, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.376 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a zoning permit shall be made on a form prescribed by
the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall be accompanied by plans and additional
information as necessary, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, to
demonstrate conformity with this chapter. The Zoning Administrator, prior to
granting a zoning permit, shall check the application and all data submitted
with it to see that all provisions of this chapter will be complied with. The
application shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee to cover the cost of
processing the application as prescribed.
   (B)   If the application for a zoning permit is for remodeling and/or
addition to an existing structure there will be no fee charged.
   (C)   If the application for a zoning permit is for new construction on a
vacant lot or parcel of land then a fee of $50 is to be paid at the time of
application. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue the zoning permit until
payment of the prescribed fee.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2401, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.377 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Officer shall not issue building permits for signs or
structures unless they conform to an approved zoning permit or a special use
permit.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2402, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.378 ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy as required in the building codes shall be
issued by the Building Officer until a certificate of zoning compliance has
been issued by the Zoning Administrator for which there is established an
appropriate fee.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2403, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 152.390 PURPOSE AND AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is empowered to grant variances in order
to prevent or to lessen such practical difficulties and unnecessary physical
hardships inconsistent with the objectives of the zoning code as would result
from a strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of certain of the
regulations prescribed by this chapter. A practical difficulty or unnecessary
physical hardship may result from the size, shape or dimensions of a site or
the location of existing structures thereon; from geographic, topographic or
other physical conditions on the site or in the immediate vicinity; or from
population densities, street locations or traffic conditions in the immediate
vicinity. Cost to the applicant of strict or literal compliance with a
regulation shall not be the sole reason for granting a variance.
   (B)   The power to grant variances does not extend to use regulations
because the flexibility necessary to avoid results inconsistent with the
objectives of the zoning code is provided by the special use provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant variances to the regulations
prescribed by this chapter, in accord with the procedure prescribed in this
subchapter, with respect to fences, walls, hedges, screening and landscaping;
site area, width, frontage, depth and coverage; front, rear and side yards;
basic floor area; usable open space; height of structures; distances between
structures; courts; signs; and off-street parking facilities and off-street
loading facilities.
   (D)   The Village Board of Trustees shall be provided with a copy of all
applications for variances and a copy of the decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals regarding all variances. The Board of Trustees, at their next regularly
scheduled meeting after any action by the Zoning Board of Appeals, may, upon
their own motion, bring the application for variance before the Board to either
grant, deny or modify the variance.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2300, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.391 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall refer the completed application
for a variance to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The application shall contain information as prescribed by the Zoning
Administrator including the following information and material:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Statement that the applicant is the owner or the authorized agent
of the owner of the property for which the variance is proposed;
      (3)   Address or description of the property;
      (4)   Statement of the precise nature of the variance requested and the
practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship inconsistent with the
objectives of the zoning code that would result from a strict or literal
interpretation and enforcement of a specific regulation of this chapter,
together with any other data pertinent to the findings prerequisite to the
granting of a variance as prescribed the section under this subchapter of the
zoning code relating to action by the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (5)   An accurate scale drawing of the site and the surrounding area for
a distance of at least 300 feet from each boundary of the site showing the
location of streets and property lines.
      (6)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee to cover the cost of
processing the application as prescribed:
 
Number of Acres   Fee
Less than 1 acre  $100
1 acre to 5 acres $350
Over 5 acres      $350, plus $25 for each acre or part thereof over 5 acres not
                  to exceed $600
 
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2301, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.392 PUBLIC HEARING: NOTICE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on an application
for a variance within 45 days of the date the application was filed. Notice of
the public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals and Planning Commission
shall be given not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of
the hearings by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village and by notifying the record title owners of the adjacent property by
U.S. Mail at the address from the latest adopted tax roles. Failure to make
said notice by U.S. Mail shall not invalidate the proceedings.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2302, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.393 REFERRAL TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall refer the application for a variance to the
Chairman of the Planning Commission at least 15 days before the public hearing
for consideration. The Planning Commission shall submit a report and
recommendation to the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Village Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2303, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.394 PUBLIC HEARING: PROCEDURE.
   At the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
application, statements and drawings submitted therewith and shall receive
pertinent evidence concerning the variance, particularly with respect to the
findings prescribed in §
152.395.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2304, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.395 ACTION BY ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Time. Within 45 days after the close of the public hearing on a
proposed variance, the Board of Appeals shall make written findings of fact and
submit its recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Findings. For the Board of Appeals to make an affirmative
recommendation on any proposed variance, as applied for or in modified form, it
must find that each of the following items are met:
      (1)   That strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the
specified regulation would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary
physical hardship inconsistent with the objectives of the zoning code.
      (2)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property involved or to the intended use of the
property that do not apply generally to other properties classified in the same
zoning district.
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not constitute a grant of
special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other properties
classified in the same zoning district.
      (4)   That the property in question cannot yield a reasonable monetary
return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the
regulations in that zoning district.
      (5)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, welfare or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
      (6)   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to the adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of
the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public
safety, or substantially diminish or impair the property values within the
neighborhood.
      (7)   The proposed variation complies with the spirit and intent of
restrictions imposed by this section.
   (C)   Signs: additional findings. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend
granting a variance to a regulation prescribed by this chapter with respect to
signs as the variance was applied for or in modified from, if, on the basis of
the application and the evidence submitted, the Zoning Board of Appeals makes
findings of fact that establish that the circumstances prescribed in the
foregoing section of this subchapter apply and the following circumstances also
apply:
      (1)   That the granting of the variance will not detract from the
attractiveness or orderliness of the village’s appearance;
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not introduce an
inharmonious visual element into the district in which the sign would be
located;
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not create a hazard to
public safety.
   (D)   Parking and loading: additional findings. The Zoning Board of Appeals
may recommend granting a variance to a regulation prescribed by this chapter
with respect to off-street parking facilities or off-street loading facilities,
as the variance was applied for or in modified form, if, on the basis of the
application and the evidence submitted, the Zoning Board of Appeals makes
findings of fact that establish that the circumstances prescribed in the
section of this subchapter relating to findings of the Zoning Board of Appeals
apply and the following circumstances also apply:
      (1)   That neither present nor anticipated future traffic volumes
generated by the use of the site or the uses of sites in the vicinity
reasonably require strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the
specified regulation;
      (2)   That the granting of the variance will not result in the parking or
loading of vehicles on public streets in such a manner as to interfere with the
free flow of traffic on the streets;
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not create a safety hazard
or any other condition inconsistent with the objectives of the zoning code.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2305, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-20, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.396 CONDITIONS.
   The Board of Appeals may recommend and the Village Board of Trustees may
require such conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location and
operation of a variance, as deemed necessary to secure the general objectives
of this chapter. Such conditions or restrictions may include provisions for the
protection of adjacent property and the expiration of said variance after a
specified period of time.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2306, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.397 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   A variance application shall be acted upon by the Village Board of
Trustees by ordinance within 45 days after receipt of the Board of Appeals’
decision. The Board of Trustees may affirm, reverse or modify a decision of the
Zoning Board of Appeals on a variance application, provided that if a Zoning
Board of Appeals decision recommending denial of a variance is reversed or a
decision recommending granting of a variance is modified, the Board of Trustees
on the basis of the record transmitted by the Zoning Administrator and such
additional evidence as may be submitted shall make findings of fact that
establish that the circumstances prerequisite to the granting of a variance
prescribed in the section of this subchapter relating to action by the Zoning
Board of Appeals apply.
   (B)   A variance shall be passed by a majority vote of the Village Board. A
proposed variance which fails to receive the approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall not be granted by the Village Board of Trustees except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds of all of the Village Trustees. A proposed
variance shall be passed only by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all the
Village Trustees if a written protest against the proposed variance is filed
with the Village Clerk, signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more of
the frontage proposed to be altered or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across the alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2307, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.398 LAPSE OF VARIANCE.
   (A)   A variance shall lapse and shall become void one year following the
date on which the variance became effective, unless prior to the expiration of
one year a building permit is issued and construction is commenced and
diligently pursued toward completion.
   (B)   A variance may be renewed for an additional period of one year,
provided that prior to the expiration of one year from the date when the
variance became effective, an application for renewal of the variance is made
to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend approval or denial of an
application for renewal of a vacation.
   (D)   An application for renewal of a variance shall meet all of the
requirements of an original application for variance as contained within this
subchapter.
   (E)   If, in the event, the building or other structure for which a variance
was applied is damaged or destroyed by fire or act of God to an extent of 51%
of its replacement cost, the property owner must apply for a new variance as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2308, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.399 REVOCATION.
   (A)   A variance granted subject to a condition or conditions shall be
revoked by the Village Board of Trustees if the condition or conditions are not
complied with. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing within
45 days in accord with the procedure prescribed in §§
152.352 and
152.354 and if not satisfied, that the regulation, general provision or
condition is being complied with, may recommend revocation of the variance or
such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the regulation,
general provision or condition.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall review the recommendation of the Zoning
Board of Appeals on the revocation and render a decision as prescribed in this
subchapter. The decision shall become effective on the date on which the
variance was acted upon by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2309, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.400 NEW APPLICATION.
   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or partly by the
Village Board of Trustees shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from
the date of said denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of
changed conditions found to be valid by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2310, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES ****
§ 152.410 CONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Any lawfully established use of a building or land, on the effective
date of this chapter, or of amendments hereto, that does not conform to the use
regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be deemed to be a
legal nonconforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   Any legal nonconforming building or structure may be continued in use
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
   (C)   Any building for which a building permit has been lawfully granted
prior to the effective date of this chapter, or of amendments hereto, may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans; provided construction is
started within 90 days and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building
shall thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2500, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.411 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the
provisions of this chapter, such premises shall not thereafter be used or
occupied by a nonconforming use, even though the building may have been
originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building, structure or part thereof
has been discontinued, or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part
of the owner to abandon a nonconforming use for a period of six consecutive
months, or in such cases where the owner had applied for and obtained an
extension of time not to exceed six additional months by the granting of a
special use permit as authorized or abandoned, be reestablished, and the use of
the premises thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations of the
district.
   (C)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of six months shall constitute abandonment and
shall not hereafter be used in a nonconforming manner.
   (D)   A use not legally authorized by the provisions of the village zoning
code in existence prior to the time this chapter becomes effective, shall be
deemed a violation and discontinued unless such use or structure is in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2501, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.412 CHANGE OR CONVERSION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   The nonconforming use of any building, structure or portion thereof, which
is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, may not be occupied by another similar or less intense nonconforming
use except by the granting of a special use permit as authorized by the
respective subchapter of this zoning code relating to special uses.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2502, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.413 TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The period of time during which the following nonconforming uses of
buildings, structures or land may continue or remain in Residential Districts
shall be limited to two years from the effective date of this chapter, or of
any amendment hereto which causes the use to be nonconforming. Every such
nonconforming use shall be completely removed from the premises at the
expiration of the two-year period.
   (B)   Any nonconforming use of a building or structure having an assessed
valuation not in excess of $500 on the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   All nonconforming signs, billboards and outdoor advertising
structures.
   (D)   Any nonconforming uses of land where no enclosed building is involved,
or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to such use,
or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming building.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2503, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.414 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   (B)   No structural alteration shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
      (1)   When the alteration is required by law;
      (2)   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use;
      (3)   When a building in a Residential District containing residential
nonconforming uses may be altered in any way to improve livability, provided no
structural alteration shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling
units or the bulk of the building.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2504, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.415 DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   In the event that a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed by fire or act of God to an extent
of:
      (1)   Not more than 50% of its replacement value, the building or
structure may be restored only to its original condition and floor area and the
occupancy or use of such building may be continued which existed at the time of
such partial destruction;
      (2)   More than 50% but less than 75% of its replacement value, the
building or structure may be restored only to its original condition and floor
area and the occupancy or use of such building may be continued which existed
at the time of such partial destruction only if an approved special use permit
is applied for and secured from the village in accordance with the provisions
of the subchapter of this zoning code relating to special uses;
      (3)   More than 75% of its replacement value, the building or structure
may be rebuilt and used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance
with the provisions of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   When the provisions of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) are applicable, the
restoration or repair of the building or other structures must be started
within a period of six months from the date of damage or destruction and
diligently pursued to completion. Failure to exercise the options herein
provided within the time specified shall be considered a voluntary abandonment
and buildings and structures may be rebuilt and used thereafter only for a
conforming use and in compliance with provisions of the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2505, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.416 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the
entire building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use and is made to
conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed on the effective date of this chapter, or to displace
any conforming uses in the same building or on the same parcel.
   (D)   A building or structure which is nonconforming with respect to yards,
floor area ratio or any other element of bulk regulated by this chapter shall
not be altered or expanded in any manner which would increase the degree or
extent of its nonconformity with respect to the bulk regulations for the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2506, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 152.425 OFFICE OF ZONING ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Creation. The Office of Zoning Administration is hereby created, and
under the direction of a Zoning Administrator, shall have the responsibility of
administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Appointment. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the
President of the Village Board of Trustees with the approval of the Village
Board.
   (C)   Term. The term of the Zoning Administrator shall be two years and
shall coincide with the term of the Village President.
   (D)   Removal. The Village Board of Trustees shall have the power to remove
the Zoning Administrator for cause and after a public hearing.
   (E)   Compensation. The Zoning Administrator’s monetary compensation shall
be determined by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (F)   Powers and duties. The Office of Zoning Administration shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter and in addition thereto and furtherance of said
authority shall:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall be the official responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may serve notice
requiring the removal of any structure or use in violation of this chapter on
the owner or his or her authorized agent, on a tenant, or on an architect,
builder, contractor or other person who commits or participates in any
violation. The Zoning Administrator may call upon the Village Attorney to
institute necessary legal proceedings to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and the Village Attorney is hereby authorized to institute appropriate actions
to that end. The Zoning Administrator may call upon the Chief of Police and his
or her authorized agents to assist in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   Examine and approve any application pertaining to the use of land,
buildings or structures to determine if the application conforms with the
provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Issue all zoning certificates and keep permanent records thereof;
      (4)   Issue all zoning permits and keep permanent records thereof;
      (5)   Conduct such inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land
as are necessary to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (6)   Receive, file and forward for action all applications for appeals,
variations, special uses and amendments to this chapter which are filed in the
zoning office;
      (7)   Initiate, direct and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this chapter and make reports of his or her recommendations to
the Village Board of Trustees not less frequently than once a year;
      (8)   Revoke certificates of zoning compliance where provisions of this
chapter are being violated;
      (9)   Issue certificate of zoning compliance for nonconforming uses
existing at the time of passage of this chapter or any amendment thereto;
      (10)   Keep records regarding the term of office of members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals, notify the Village President and the Board of Trustees as to
vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals and notify the Village President and
the Board of Trustees regarding any changes in positions of Chairman, Vice-
Chairman and Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (11)   Any additional powers and duties as set forth by this chapter or
any other ordinance or regulation of the village.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2600, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.426 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   A planning commission is hereby created, such commission to consist
of seven members appointed by the Village President, subject to confirmation by
the Board of Trustees. The word COMMISSION when used in this section shall be
construed to mean the Planning Commission. All members of the Commission shall
be residents of the village. No voting member of the Planning Commission shall
hold an elective office on the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The initial members of the Commission shall serve for a term of
five years and/or until their respective successors are appointed and
confirmed.
      (3)   Thereafter, as their terms expire, each new member shall serve for
a term of five years. The Planning Commission, at its annual meeting shall
elect three of their members to serve as Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary
for the next succeeding year.
      (4)   The Village President, subject to confirmation by the Village Board
of Trustees, shall have the power to remove any member of the Planning
Commission for cause and after a public hearing. Vacancies upon the Commission
shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become
vacant, in the manner herein provided for the appointment of such members. The
Planning Commission may give notice to the Village Board of Trustees that a
vacancy exists for any member who fails to attend three meetings in any one
calendar year, and the Village Board of Trustees may remove the member and fill
the vacancy.
   (B)   Meetings and rules. All meetings of the Commission shall be held at
the call of the Chairman and at such other times as the Commission may
determine. All hearings conducted by said Commission shall be open to the
public. Any person may appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by
a duly authorized agent or attorney. The Chairman, or in his or her absence,
the acting chairman, may administer oaths and request the attendance of
witnesses. The Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other
official actions. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof,
and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Commission shall
be filed immediately in the Office of Zoning Administration and shall be a
public record. The Commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in
conflict with this chapter or with the applicable Illinois Statutes, a copy of
which shall be filed in the Office of Zoning Administration.
   (C)   Offices. The Board of Trustees shall provide suitable offices for the
holding of hearing and the presentation of records, documents and accounts.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Board of Trustees shall appropriate funds to carry
out the duties of the Commission, and the Commission shall have the authority
to expend, under regular procedure, all sums appropriated to it for the
purposes and activities authorized herein.
   (E)   Compensation. The members of the Commission shall serve without
salary.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2601, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.427 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby created, such Board to consist
of seven members appointed by the Village President subject to confirmation by
the Village Board of Trustees. The word BOARD when used in this section shall
be construed to mean the Zoning Board of Appeals. All members of the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall be residents of the village. No voting member of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold an elective office on the Village Board of
Trustees.
      (2)   The members of the Board shall serve for a term of five years and/
or until their respective successors are appointed and qualified.
      (3)   Thereafter, as their terms expire, each new appointment shall be
for a term of five years. The Zoning Board of Appeals, at its annual meeting
shall elect three of their members to serve as Chairman, Vice-Chairman and
Secretary for the next succeeding year.
      (4)   The Board of Trustees shall have the power to remove any member of
the Board for cause and after a public hearing. Vacancies upon the Board shall
be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant,
in the manner herein provided for the appointment of such members. The Zoning
Board of Appeals may give notice to the Village Board of Trustees that a
vacancy exists for any member who fails to attend three meetings in any one
calendar year, and the Village Board of Trustees may remove the member herein
provided for the appointment of such members.
   (B)   Meetings and rules. All meetings of the Board shall be held at the
call of the Chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. All
hearings conducted by said Board shall be open to the public. Any person may
appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent
or attorney. The Chairman, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairman, may
administer oaths and request the attendance of witnesses. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep
records of its hearings and other official actions. Every rule or regulation,
every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Board shall be filed immediately in the Office of Zoning
Administration and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its own
rules of procedure not in conflict with this chapter or with the applicable
Illinois Statutes, a copy of which shall be filed in the Office of Zoning
Administration.
   (C)   Offices. The Board of Trustees shall provide suitable offices for the
holding of hearings and the presentation of records, documents and accounts.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Board of Trustees shall appropriate funds to carry
out the duties of the Board, and the Board shall have the authority to expend,
under regular procedure, all sums appropriated to it for the purposes and
activities authorized herein.
   (E)   Compensation. The members of the Board shall serve without salary.
   (F)   Jurisdiction. The Board of Appeals is hereby vested with the following
jurisdiction and authority:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator under this chapter. In hearing
and deciding appeals, the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
the Zoning Administrator to the extent and in the manner that the Board may
decide to be fit and proper, and to that end, the Board shall also have all the
powers from the Officer from whom the appeals are taken;
      (2)   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter;
      (3)   To hear and pass upon application for special use permits and
variations from a strict application of the terms of this chapter, in the
manner and subject to the standards set out in this chapter;
      (4)   No rehearing shall be held on a denied appeal or application for
variation or special use permit for a period of 12 months from the date of said
denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions
found to be valid by the Board of Appeals.
   (G)   Decisions of the Board of Appeals. The concurring vote of four members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this chapter to render
decisions. All final administrative decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the “Administrative
Review Act” of the Illinois Statutes.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2602, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-15, passed 10-3-06)
§ 152.428 APPEAL OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR’S DECISION.
   (A)   Appeals generally. An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of
Appeals by any persons, firm, corporation, or office, department, board, or
bureau affected by a decision of the Office of the Zoning Administrator. Such
appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the Board by
general rules adopted by it, and shall be taken by filing with the Zoning
Administrator a notice of appeal, specifying the ground thereof, together with
such plats and exhibits as are reasonably necessary. Such appeal shall be taken
upon forms provided by the Board. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed was taken.
   (B)   Hearing of appeals. The Board shall fix a reasonable time and place
for the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons
appealing and to the Officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear and
decide the appeal within 15 days of the date when the appeal was filed unless
otherwise specified by this or any other ordinance of the village. At the
hearing, parties of interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney to
testify.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. The appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator
certifies to the Board of Appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed with
him or her that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such a case,
the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Appeals or by Court of Record on application, with
notice of the Officer from whom the appeal is taken and all due causes shown.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2603, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.429 ENFORCEMENT.
   All officials, departments and employees of the village vested with the
authority or duty to issue permits, certificates or licenses shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit, certificate or
license which conflicts with the provisions of this chapter. Any permit,
certificate or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be void.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2604, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
**** AMENDMENTS ****
§ 152.440 PURPOSE.
   This chapter may be amended by changing the boundaries of any district
(zoning change), by changing any district regulation, off-street parking or
loading facilities requirement, general provision, exception or other provision
thereof in accord with the procedure prescribed in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2000, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.441 INITIATION.
   (A)   A change in the boundaries of any district (zoning change) may be
initiated by the owner or the authorized agent of the owner of the property
filing an application for a change in district boundaries as prescribed in §
152.442. If the property for which a change of district is proposed is in more
than one ownership, all the owners or their authorized agents shall join in
filing the application.
   (B)   A change in boundaries of any district (zoning change) or a change in
a district regulation, off- street parking or loading facilities requirement,
general provision, exception or other provisions may be initiated by action of
the Zoning Board of Appeals or Village Board of Trustees, provided that in
either case the procedure prescribed in §§
152.443 through
152.445 shall be followed.
   (C)   A proposal for a change in boundaries of any district (zoning change)
initiated by the Board of Trustees and one initiated by a property owner for
all or part of the same area may be considered simultaneously.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2001, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.442 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Data to be furnished. A property owner or his or her authorized agent
desiring to propose a change in the boundaries of the district in which his or
her property is located (rezoning) may file with the Zoning Administrator an
application for a change in district boundaries on a form prescribed by the
Zoning Board which shall include the following data:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Statement that the applicant is the owner or the authorized agent
of the owner of the property for which the change in district boundaries is
proposed;
      (3)   Address or description of the property;
      (4)   Any additional information proscribed in this chapter for the
particular rezoning request or required by the Zoning Board of Appeals or Plan
Commission.
   (B)   Map. The application shall be accompanied by an accurate scale drawing
of the site and the surrounding area for a distance of at least 300 feet from
each boundary of the site showing the location of streets and property lines.
   (C)   Application for zoning map amendment. The application shall be
accompanied by a fee to cover the cost of processing the application as
prescribed in this subchapter.
 
Number of Acres   Fee
Less than 1 acre  $100
1 acre to 5 acres $350
Over 5 acres      $350, plus $25 for each acre or part thereof over 5 acres not
                  to exceed $600
 
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2002, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 1996-28, passed 12-16-96; Am.
Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.443 ACTION OF ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Public hearing: notice. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold at
least one public hearing on each application for a change in district parking
or loading facilities requirement, general provision, exception or other
provision of this chapter within 45 days of the date the application was filed
or the proposal was initiated. Notice of the public hearing shall be given not
less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village and by
notifying the record title owners of the adjacent property by U.S. Mail at the
address from the latest adopted tax roles. Failure to make said notice by U.S.
Mail shall not invalidate the proceedings.
   (B)   Public hearing: procedure. At the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall review the application or proposal and may receive pertinent
evidence as to how the proposed change is consistent with the objectives of the
zoning code prescribed in §
152.001.
   (C)   Referral to Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall refer
the application for an amendment to the Chairman of the Planning Commission at
least ten days before the public hearing for consideration. The Planning
Commission shall submit a report and recommendation to the Zoning Board of
Appeals and the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Findings of fact and recommendation of the Zoning Board. Within 45
days following the public hearing, the Zoning Board shall make a specific
finding as to whether the change is consistent with the objectives of the
zoning code prescribed in §
152.001. The Zoning Board shall transmit a report to the Board of Trustees
recommending that the application be granted, granted in modified form, denied
or that the proposal be adopted, adopted in modified form or rejected together
with a copy of the application, resolution of the Zoning Board, or request of
the Board of Trustees; the scale drawing of the site and the surrounding area
and all other data filed therewith; the minutes of the public hearing and the
findings of the Zoning Board.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2003, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.444 ACTION OF THE VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees shall review the application or proposal and the
report of the Zoning Board and the report of the Planning Commission and may
receive additional evidence. The Board of Trustees shall make a specific
finding as to whether the change is consistent with the objectives of the
zoning code prescribed in §
152.001. If the Board of Trustees finds that the change is consistent, it shall
enact an ordinance amending the regulations of this chapter. If the Board of
trustees finds that the change is not consistent, it shall deny the applicant
or reject the proposal. An amendment which fails to receive the approval of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be granted by the Village Board of trustees
except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all the Village Trustees who are
present. If a written protest against the proposed amendment is filed with the
Village Clerk, signed and acknowledged by the adjoining property owners of 20%
or more of the perimeter of the subject parcel, then the amendment shall not be
granted by the Village Board of Trustees except by the favorable vote of two-
thirds of all the Village Trustees who are present.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2004, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am.
Ord. 2006-16, passed 11-21-06)
§ 152.445 NEW APPLICATION.
   Following the denial of an application for a change in district boundaries,
no application for the same or substantially the same change shall be filed
within one year of the date of denial of the application, except on the grounds
of new evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the Zoning
Board.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2005, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 152.446 DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be the Board policy that no annexation agreement shall be
entered into without a commitment from the developer or annexing party, at a
minimum, to provide funds sufficient to enable each affected school to respond
fully to the effect of each new residential or commercial development in the
annexed territory.
   (B)   The dollar amount to be collected from the developers or annexing
party for the benefit of each affected school district will be a subject of
contractual negotiation between the parties seeking to annex property and the
village, but will not be less than $2,500 per residential lot or $2,500 per
commercial building up to 10,000 square feet in size. If however, more than two
units per residential lot are planned then:
      (1)   If the units are attached to any other unit within the same
building, the fee will be $2,500 per unit in excess of two units per building.
      (2)   If the units are unattached to any other unit within a single
building, the fee will be $2,500 per unit in excess of two units per lot.
      (3)   Additionally, if more than 10,000 square feet of commercial
building is planned then: an additional $.025 over square feet of building will
be charged in addition to the $2,500 charged the first 10,000 square feet.
(Res. 2006-107, passed 11-6-06)
**** ADULT-USE CANNABIS ****
§ 152.500 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   It is the intent and purpose of these adult use cannabis provisions is to
provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the village. Such
facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In
the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state or local
regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.501 SPECIAL USE.
   Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities, as defined in this
chapter, requiring approval of a special use permit in the respective district
in which they are requested and shall be processed in accordance with the
special use provisions (§§
152.350 through
152.361).
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.502 ADULT-USE CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS.
   In determining compliance with this chapter, the following components of the
adult-use cannabis facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the
circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the existing
and intended future use of the properties:
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply.
   (E)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
   (F)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
   (G)   Proposed signage plan.
   (H)   Compliance with all requirements provided in §§
152.503,
152.504,
152.505,
152.506,
152.507, or
152.508, as applicable.
   (I)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
the special use provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.503 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis craft
grower shall be classified as "Retail Store" per Chapter 152, Appendix 2,
provided, however, that the village may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through the special use
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.504 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
   (C)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified as "Retail Store" per Chapter 152,
Appendix 2, provided, however, that the may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through the special use
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.505 ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises.
   (D)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   (E)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Retail Store" per
Chapter 152, Appendix 2, provided, however, that the village may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
the special use provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.506 ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis infuser
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Retail Store" per
Chapter 152, Appendix 2, provided, however, that the village may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
the special use provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.507 ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing
organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Retail Store" per
Chapter 152, Appendix 2, provided, however, that the village may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
the special use provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.508 ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION.
   In those zoning districts in which an adult-use transporting organization
may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line of
a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
   (C)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (D)   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Retail Store" per
Chapter 152, Appendix 2, provided, however, that the village may require that
additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis completed through
the special use provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this chapter as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.509 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the conditional use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use
cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent
with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.510 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Village may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization with an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use
cannabis infuser organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the Act
and the special use criteria within the Village Zoning Code. In a co-location,
the floor space requirements of §§
152.505(C) and
152.506(C) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole
use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
§ 152.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500. A person, firm,
corporation or organization shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each day during any portion of which a violation of this chapter is committed,
continued or permitted by the person, firm, corporation or organization and
shall be punishable as herein provided.
   (B)   Any structure or sign erected, moved, altered, enlarged or maintained
and any use of a site contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be and
is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance. The Village Attorney
shall immediately institute necessary legal proceedings for the abatement,
removal and enjoyment thereof in the manner provided by law and shall take such
other steps as may be necessary to accomplish these ends. The Village Attorney
shall apply to a court of competent jurisdiction to grant such relief as will
remove or abate the structure, sign or use and restrain or enjoin the person,
firm, corporation or organization from erecting, moving, altering or enlarging
the structure or sign or using the site contrary to the provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1994-3, § 2604, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
APPENDIX: TABLES
Section
§ 1 ZONING SCHEDULE.
Minimum Site                  Minimum Yards                                     Accessory Structures
               Width-         Front  Interior      Max.     Max.       Site            Min.     Min.
Districts Area Interior Depth and    Side Lot Rear Site     Height-    Area per Max.   Distance Distance
               Lot            Corner Line          Coverage Main       Dwelling Height to Side  to Rear
                              Side                          Structures Unit            Lot Line Lot Line
Minimum Site                       Minimum Yards                                       Accessory Structures
                    Width-         Front  Interior      Max.     Max.       Site Area         Min.     Min.
Districts    Area   Interior Depth and    Side Lot Rear Site     Height-    per        Max.   Distance Distance
                    Lot            Corner Line          Coverage Main       Dwelling   Height to Side  to Rear
                                   Side                          Structures Unit              Lot Line Lot Line
AG           5      250 ft.  400   ½ row 12 ft.   75   30%      35 ft.     5 acres    20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
Agricultural acres           ft.                   ft.
UT Urban     5      250 ft.  400   ½ row 25 ft.   75   25 %     35 ft.     5 acres    20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
Transitional acres           ft.                   ft.
RE Rural     2.5    200 ft.  400   ½ row 12 ft.   75   25%      35 ft.     2.5 acres  20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
Estates      acres           ft.                   ft.
R1           12,500          150                   30                       12,500 sq.
Residential  sq.    75 ft.   ft.   ½ row 12 ft.   ft.  30%      35 ft.     ft.        20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
             ft.
R2 Two-      12,500          150                   30                       6,250 sq.
Family       sq.    75 ft.   ft.   ½ row 12 ft.   ft.  35%      35 ft.     ft.        20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
Residential  ft.
                                                                            Permitted:
                                                                            as little
                                                                 Permitted: as 5,400
RM Multi-    19,500          150                   30            35 ft.     sq. ft.
Family       sq.    130 ft.  ft.   ½ row 12 ft.   ft.  40%      Special    Special    20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
Residential  ft.                                                 use:       use: as
                                                                 45 ft.     little as
                                                                            2,700 sq.
                                                                            ft.
                                                                            Permitted:
                                                                 Permitted: as little
RM-C Condo   19,500          150                   30            35 ft.     as 5.400
Residential  sq.    130 ft.  ft.   ½ row 12 ft.   ft.  50%      Special    sq. ft.    20 ft. 5 ft.    5 ft.
             ft.                                                 use:       Special
                                                                 75 ft.     use:
                                                                            no minimum
CR Central                                                                  same as RM
Retail       —    —      —   —    —      —  100%     45 ft.     Dist.      20 ft. —      —
District
CG General   20,000          150                   30                       dwellings
Commercial   sq.    120 ft.  ft.   30 ft. 10 ft.   ft.  60%      45 ft.     not        35 ft. 10 ft.   10 ft.
District     ft.                                                            permitted
                                                                                              10 ft.   10 ft.
CH Highway   30,000          200                   10                       same as RM        (20 ft.  (20 ft.
Commercial   sq.    120 ft.  ft.   25 ft. 10 ft.   ft.  60%      45 ft.     Dist       35 ft. to res.  to res.
District     ft.                                                                              lot      lot
                                                                                              line)    line)
IL Light     10,000          120                   30                       dwellings
Industrial   sq.    75 ft.   ft.   20 ft. —      ft.  60%      50 ft.     not        35 ft. 30 ft.   30 ft.
District     ft.                                                            permitted
IG General   20,000          150                   30                       dwellings
Industrial   sq.    120 ft.  ft.   30 ft. —      ft.  75%      50 ft.     not        35 ft. 30 ft.   30 ft.
District     ft.                                                            permitted
IH Heavy     40,000          200                   50                       dwellings  100
Industrial   sq.    120 ft.  ft.   —    —      ft.  75%      100 ft.    not        ft.    50 ft.   50 ft.
District     ft.                                                            permitted
 
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 5-16-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2024-
4, passed 4-16-24)
§ 2 SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
(MINIMUM STANDARDS)
Use No. of Parking Spaces Required per Unit of Measurement
    Number Unit
SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES
(MINIMUM STANDARDS)
Use                                  No. of Parking Spaces Required per Unit of
                                     Measurement
                                     Number Unit
Residential
Guest, boarding or lodging house     1.0    Dwelling units and lodging unit
                                            Dwelling units under 1,200 square
Dwellings, 1-family and 2-family and 2.0    feet;
mobile home                                 
                                     3.0    Dwelling units over 1,200 square
                                            feet
Dwellings, multi-family (except      1.5    Dwelling unit
elderly)
Dwellings, multi-family which are
specifically designed and occupied   1.0    Dwelling unit
exclusively by persons 60 years of
age or older
College dormitories                  1.0    Two occupants
Motels, hotels                       1.0    Sleeping unit
Educational, cultural and institutional
Auditoriums and other places of      1.0    4 seats
assembly
Churches, temples and other places   1.0    2 seats
of worship
Elementary and nursery schools, care 1.0    Each employee plus 1.0 for each 50
and rehabilitation centers                  students or clients enrolled
Convalescence or nursing homes       1.0    3 beds plus 1.5 per 2 employees of
                                            the largest shift
Hospitals                            1.5    Bed
                                            Each employee plus 1.0 for 5
Junior and senior high schools and   1.0    students or 1.0 for each 5 seats in
colleges                                    auditorium, stadium, and the like,
                                            whichever is larger
Art galleries, museums and the like  1.0    300 square feet floor area
Commercial and Industrial
Bowling alley                        4.0    Per alley
Funeral homes                        1.0    2 seats
Offices, banks and public            1.0    300 square feet floor area
administration
Service garages                      3.0    Stall
                                     1.0    20 square feet gross floor area; or
Drive-ins and roadside services            Each 4 patron seats; or
                                     1.0    Per employee of largest work shift,
                                     3.0    whichever is greatest
Automobile or machinery sales        1.0    800 square feet floor area
Medical clinics and service          1.0    200 square feet floor area
establishments
Furniture and appliance stores       1.0    600 square feet floor area
Retail stores                        1.0    200 square feet floor area
Shopping centers                     3.0    1,000 square feet floor area
Theater                              1.0    4 seats
All other commercial                 1.0    300 square feet floor area
Industrial, warehousing, utilities   1.0    1½ employees of the largest shift
 
(Ord. 1994-3, passed 5-15-94; Am. Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04)
§ 3 USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
TYPE OF USE CN CR CG CH
TYPE OF USE                                                                    CN CR CG CH
Accessory structures and accessory uses, if on the same site as a permitted or P  P  P  P
special use, including parking but not including warehouses
Accessory structures, general                                                        P  P
Adult-use cannabis business establishment                                            S  S
Adult-use cannabis craft grower                                                      S  S
Adult-use cannabis cultivation center                                                S  S
Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization                                           S  S
Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser                                   S  S
Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor                              S  S
Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter                          S  S
Ambulance service                                                                 S  P  P
Amusement parks                                                                         S
Art and craft schools                                                          P  P  P  P
Art galleries and stores selling objects of art                                P  P  P  P
Artist supply stores                                                           P  P  P  P
Auction sales rooms                                                                  S  S
Bakeries, general                                                                 S  P  P
Bakeries, including baking for sale on premises only                           P  P  P  P
Banks and savings and loan offices (special use permit for drive-thru lanes)   P  P  P  P
Barber shops and beauty shops                                                  P  P  P  P
Bed and breakfast establishments                                               S  S  S  S
Bicycle shops                                                                  P  P  P  P
Billiard parlors and pool rooms (special use permit for alcohol sales)         P  P  P  P
Blacksmith and/or welding shops                                                      S  S
Blueprint and Photostat shops                                                  P  P  P  P
Boat marinas and launching ramps                                                        S
Book binding                                                                      S  P  P
Book stores and rental libraries                                               P  P  P  P
Bottling works                                                                       S  S
Bowling alleys (special use permit for alcohol sales)                                   P
Bus depots                                                                        S  S  S
Cabinet shops                                                                     S  P  P
Camping grounds, but not including provisions for use of trailer coaches,               S
travel trailers, or mobile homes
Candy stores                                                                   P  P  P  P
Carnivals, circuses and other transient amusement enterprises                     S  S  S
Carpenter’s shops                                                               S  P  P
Catering shops                                                                    S  P  P
Charitable institutions, not including religious institutions                  S  S  S  S
Christmas tree sales lots                                                      P  P  P  P
Churches, parsonages, parish houses, monasteries, convents and other religious S  S
institutions
Cigar stores                                                                   P  P  P  P
Cleaning and dyeing, including carpets or garments                                   S  S
Cleaning and laundry agencies                                                  P  P  P  P
Clinics, hospitals, sanitariums and nursing homes (people and household pets)  S  S  S  S
Clothing and costume rental establishments                                     P  P  P  P
Clothing stores                                                                P  P  P  P
Coffee shops and similar establishments (except for alcohol sales)             P  P  P  P
Cold storage plants                                                                  S  S
Dairy products plants                                                                S  S
Dance halls or studios, not including adult entertainment establishments       S  S  S  P
Day care centers                                                               P  P  P  P
Department stores                                                              P  P  P  P
Diaper supply services                                                            S  P  P
Drug stores without drive-through lanes (see “In-vehicle sales or service” PorP  P  P
drive-through)
Dry goods stores                                                               P  P  P  P
Dwelling unit, within the same building in the rear or on the second or higher P  P  S  S
floor subject to RM District criteria
Dwelling unit, incidental to and on the same site with a permitted or special  S  S  S  S
use subject to RM District criteria
Electrical appliance sales and repair stores, provided that repair services    P  P  P  P
shall be incidental to retail sales
Electrical appliance sales and repair shops, general                                 P  P
Exterminators                                                                        S  S
Finance companies; Financial institutions without drive through lanes          P  P  P  P
Financial institutions with drive-through lanes                                S  S  S  S
Florists                                                                       P  P  P  P
Food lockers                                                                   S  S  S  P
Food stores and delicatessens                                                  P  P  P  P
Furniture stores                                                               P  P  P  P
Garden shops                                                                   P  P  P  P
Gift shops                                                                     P  P  P  P
Glass shops                                                                       S  P  P
Golf courses, driving ranges, and miniature golf                                        S
Governmental and civic uses, not including public utility uses                 P  P  P  P
Gun clubs                                                                               S
Gunsmith shops                                                                    S  P  P
Hardware stores                                                                P  P  P  P
Heating and ventilating shops                                                        S  S
Hiking trails                                                                  P  P  P  P
Hobby shops                                                                    P  P  P  P
Horse and pony stables, riding rings and trails                                         S
Hotels and motels                                                                 S  S  S
Household, office equipment, and machinery repair shops                           S  P  P
Household appliance store                                                      P  P  P  P
Ice storage houses                                                                   S  S
In-vehicle sales or service operations (see also “Financial institutions” aSd    S  S
“Service stations”)
Interior decorating shops                                                      P  P  P  P
Jewelry stores                                                                 P  P  P  P
Laboratories                                                                         S  S
Laundries and dry cleaning establishments, full-service or self-service        S  S  S  S
Leather goods and luggage stores                                               P  P  P  P
Light industrial uses, listed as permitted by right uses in the IL District          S  S
Linen supply services                                                             S  P  P
Locksmiths                                                                     P  P  P  P
Lumber yards, provided that outdoor storage does not result in debris/litter         S  S
Mattress sales, assembly, and repair shops                                        S  P  P
Meeting halls                                                                  S  S  P  P
Messenger offices                                                              P  P  P  P
Millinery shops                                                                P  P  P  P
Motor vehicle, trailer, & boat sales                                              S  S  P
Mortuaries                                                                              P
Motor vehicle, trailer, & mobile home repair and services                            S  S
Museums                                                                        S  S  S  S
Music stores and instrument repair shops                                       P  P  P  P
Natural exhibition facilities, including planetaria, aquariums, botanical               S
gardens, arboretums and zoos
Newsstands                                                                     P  P  P  P
Nurseries and garden supply stores, general (fertilizer packaged only)               P  P
Nurseries and garden supply stores, with plants as only outdoor item           P  P  P  P
(fertilizer packaged only)
Off-street parking facilities located on separate site                         S  S  S  S
Offices and office buildings                                                   P  P  P  P
Optician and optometrist shops                                                 P  P  P  P
Paint and wallpaper stores, provided that no manufacturing of either is        P  P  P  P
performed on-site
Parcel delivery services                                                          S  P  P
Pet and bird stores                                                            P  P  P  P
Photography studios, including developing and printing                         S  S  P  P
Picnic areas                                                                   P  P  P  P
Picture framing shops                                                          P  P  P  P
Plumbing shops and showrooms                                                      S  P  P
Post offices                                                                   P  P  P  P
Printing, lithographing and engraving                                             S  P  P
Public garage                                                                     S     P
Parking located on a separate site from the principal use                      S  P  S  S
Public parking lots, meeting off-street parking standards                      P  P  P  P
Public utility facility and services                                           S  S  S  S
Radio and TV broadcasting studios                                                 S  P  P
Radio and television repair shops                                              P  P  P  P
Realtors and real estate offices                                               P  P  P  P
Refrigeration equipment sales and service                                         S  P  P
Restaurants and cafes which include alcohol sales as 40% or less of total      S  P  P  P
revenues (special use permit required for drive-thru and drive-in restaurants)
Restaurants and cafes without alcohol sales, not including drive-in or drive-
through restaurants (special use permit required for drive-thru and drive-in   P  P  P  P
restaurants)
Safe and vault repairing                                                          S  P  P
Scientific instrument stores                                                   P  P  P  P
Seasonal farm open air markets for products not produced on site               P  P  P  P
Secondhand sales conducted entirely inside a building                          S  S  S  S
Service stations in existence prior to January 1, 2005, including light
automotive repair services (see also “In-vehicle sales or service” for otheS  S  S  S
service stations)
Sheet metal shops                                                                 S  S  S
Shoe repair shops                                                              P  P  P  P
Shoe stores                                                                    P  P  P  P
Shopping centers                                                               S  S  P  P
Skating rinks within buildings                                                          P
Solar or wind-operated energy devices with a limit of one per site             S  S  S  S
Sports stadiums or arenas                                                            S  S
Sporting goods stores                                                          P  P  P  P
Stamp and coin stores                                                          P  P  P  P
Stationery stores                                                              P  P  P  P
Stone and monument yards                                                             S  S
Swimming and beach facilities                                                           S
Swimming pools, non-municipally owned                                                S  S
Tailor and dressmaking shops                                                   P  P  P  P
Tanning booths                                                                 P  P  P  P
Tattoo parlors                                                                    S  S  S
Taverns, nightclubs, and similar establishments                                   S  S  S
Taxidermists                                                                      S  P  P
Telegraph offices                                                              P  P  P  P
Telephone exchanges                                                               S  P  P
Theaters, drive-in                                                                   S  S
Theaters and auditoriums within buildings, not including those housing adult   S     S  S
entertainment establishments (see also “Theaters, drive-in”)
Tire sales, re-treading, and recapping                                            P  P  P
Tool or cutlery sharpening or grinding                                            S  P  P
Toy stores                                                                     P  P  P  P
Travel agencies                                                                P  P  P  P
Variety stores                                                                 S  P  P  P
Vending machine service                                                           S  P  P
Video rental facilities                                                        P  P  P  P
Watch and clock repair shops                                                   P  P  P  P
Wholesale establishments, without outdoor storage                                    S  S
Any other use determined by the Village Board of Trustees to be similar than one of the
above uses may be allowed as a permitted-by-right or special use.
 
(Permitted use = P; Special use = S; Not permitted = blank)
(Ord. 2004-29, passed 11-16-04; Am. Ord. 2011-10, passed 3-22-11; Am. Ord.
2022-11, passed 6-21-22)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Base flood elevation
   
153.04   Duties of the Village Engineer
   
153.05   Development permit
   
153.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
153.07   Protecting buildings
   
153.08   Subdivision requirements
   
153.09   Public health and other standards
   
153.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
153.11   Variances
   
153.12   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-
30-8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
153.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180
days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the Village of Rockton, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of
Rockton, or that may be annexed into the Village of Rockton, that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the Village of Rockton are
generally identified as such on panel number(s) 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 137
and 141 of the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Winnebago County prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 17, 2016.
FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the
community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Winnebago County
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Village of Rockton or
that may be annexed into the Village of Rockton are generally identified as
such on the Flood Insurance Rate map prepared for Winnebago County by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 17, 2016.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of the Rock River shall be as
delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Winnebago County
prepared by FEMA and dated February 17, 2016. The FLOODWAYS for each of the
remaining floodplains of the Village of Rockton shall be according to the best
data available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR /OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. Illinois Department of Natural Resource
Office of Water Resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary
area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of any stream
serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a rural area. Construction
on these streams requires a permit from the Department. (Ill Admin. Code tit.
17, pt. 3700.30). The Department may grant approval for specific types of
activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the standards defined
in § 
153.06.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
153.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the ACTUAL START OF
CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. See definition of BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes “repetitive
loss buildings” (see definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started, or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed
to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Rock River shall
be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide Flood
Insurance Study of Winnebago County prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2016.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the county
wide Flood Insurance Rate Map of Winnebago County.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of
Winnebago County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Winnebago County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the Village of Rockton, or that may be annexed into the Village
of Rockton, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of Winnebago County prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated February 17, 2016.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.04 DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE ENGINEER.
   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the Village of Rockton meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the Village Engineer shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
153.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
153.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
153.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
153.08;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
153.09;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
153.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
153.99 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
   (M)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Village Engineer. The Village Engineer shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
153.07; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Village Engineer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to
be below the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not
identified as floodplain on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map, is subject to
the provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and
which has not been filled after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance
Rate Map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The Village Engineer shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate
Map identification.
      (3)   The Village Engineer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Village Engineer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in §
153.06(B), no development shall be allowed which, acting in combination with
existing and anticipated development will cause any increase in flood heights
or velocities or threat to public health and safety. The following specific
development activities shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2:
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3:
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4;
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5:
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6:
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9:
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10:
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11:
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 12:
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide Permit Number 13:
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in §
153.06(A) may be permitted only if:
      (1)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
153.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or 70 square feet.
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage).
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
153.02.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material; and
         (e)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters;
         (b)   All components located below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed;
            2.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            3.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (C).
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with §
153.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code § 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
153.07(D) unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck;
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (5)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (6)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain;
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect;
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (10)   Must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by used of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage of shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $15,000 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 576 square feet (24'x 24').
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Rockton Village Board shall take into account hazards, to the
extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land management
use and development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
153.06 and
153.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
153.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined the flood protection elevation shall be three feet above
the 100-year flood frequency elevation. Floodproofing and sealing measures must
be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released
into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base
flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the Village of Rockton shall notify adjacent communities
in writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the applicant’s
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Rockton
Village Board. The Rockton Village Board may attach such conditions to granting
of a variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of §
153.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Historic structures. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
153.07 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in §
153.02 (Historic Structures), may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (D)   Agriculture.
      (1)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and
the threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be
included for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are
constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
         (a)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
         (b)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
         (c)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures,
the exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation,
wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
153.07.
         (d)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in
accordance with §
153.07. All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
         (e)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
153.07.
         (f)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to
the 100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and
exit of flood waters in accordance with §
153.07(B).
         (g)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
153.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
         (h)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the Floodplain Administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the Village of Rockton or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Rockton
Village Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program including: N/A. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the Program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Village Attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   (a)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice
of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
            1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
            2.   The time and place of the hearing.
         (b)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 9-6-16)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   RENAMING STREETS
      
II.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
      
III.   ZONING CHANGES
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   SALE OF PROPERTY
      
VI.   VACATIONS
      
VII.   VARIANCES; SPECIAL USES
      
VIII.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: RENAMING STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2000-34  12-4-00     Changing the name of Old Route 2, which connects Illinois
                     Route 2 and Illinois Route 75, to Wagon Wheel Road.
2015-9   2-3-15      Changing the name of Cherry Street to North Ferry Street.
 
TABLE II: ENTERPRISE ZONES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1989-14  12-18-89    Designating an area within the Village of Rockton as an
                     Enterprise Zone for a period of 20 years.
1990-1   2-5-90      Amending Ord. 1989-14, which designated an area within the
                     Village of Rockton as an Enterprise Zone.
 
TABLE III: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing a zoning map amendment from UT- Urban
                     Transitional to R-1 One-Family Residential District for
1996-3   3-4-96      part of the northeast quarter and southeast quarter of
                     Section 24, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third
                     Principal Meridian.
2005-27  6-21-05     Zoning approximately 33. 5 acres as CH- Commercial Highway
                     District.
2007-3   2-6-07      Rezoning certain property located at 4282 Rockton Road as
                     CN District.
2007-7   3-6-07      Rezoning certain property located at 12134 Old River Road
                     as R-2 District, R-1 District and CG District.
                     Rezoning certain property located along Old River Road,
2007-14  3-20-07     Roscoe Road and Liddle Roads as R-1, R-2, RM-Condominium,
                     CG-Commercial and CH- Commercial Highway District.
2007-18  5-15-07     Rezoning certain property located at 668 Rockton Road as
                     R-1 District.
2007-23  9-5-07      Rezoning certain property located on Old River Road as R-
                     M District.
2009-006 2-9-09      Rezoning certain property located on Old River Road as R-
                     1 District.
2009-11A 6-2-09      Rezoning a portion of certain property located on Old
                     River Road as UT.
2010-11  6-8-10      Rezoning certain property located at 4638 Rockton Road as
                     Commercial Highway (CH).
2010-15  7-6-10      Rezoning certain property located at 12388 Old River Road
                     as Urban Transition (UT).
2011-5   2-8-11      Rezoning Lot No. 322 of the Woodlands on Williamson
                     Parkway as Parks and Cemeteries (PC).
2011-14  5-3-11      Approving R-1 classification for property located at 903
                     N. Prairie.
 
TABLE IV: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Granting unto Beloit Community Television Services a
1970-8     12-21-70    franchise to construct and operate a community antenna
                       and closed circuit electronic system within the village
                       for a term of 20 years.
1970-9     12-21-70    Amending Ord. 1970-7.
                       Granting unto Beloit Community Television Services a
1973-1     4-23-73     franchise to construct and operate a community antenna
                       and closed circuit electronic system within the village
                       for a term of 15 years.
                       Repealing Ord. 1973-1 and granting renewal of the
1988-12    5-16-88     American Television and Communications Corporation
                       franchise.
                       Authorizing the Village President to enter into
R 2003-13  5-6-03      agreement to extend the existing cable franchise with
                       Charter Cable Partners, LLC.
                       Granting a nonexclusive franchise for the maintenance
2003-9     6-15-03     and operation of a cable system in the village to
                       Charter Cable Partners, LLC.
R 2003-104 7-22-03     Approving Ord. 2003-9.
                       Approving the grant of a certain perpetual right and
2004-2     2-3-04      easement to American Transmission Company, LLC and South
                       Beloit Water, Gas and Electric Company.
 
TABLE V: SALE OF PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
                              Authorizing the sale of that part of the
1957-14           11-18-57    northeast quarter of Section 24, Township 46
                              North, Range 1 East, Winnebago County.
                              Selling Lot 6 and the east half of Lot 5, all in
1981-12           12-7-81     Block 9, which property is generally located at
                              122 East Main Street, to C. A. Sylvester for
                              $38,750.
                              Authorizing the sale of the east four feet of Lot
1982-10           9-7-82      11 and all of Lot 10 in Block 14, which property
                              is generally located at 215 West Main.
                              Authorizing the sale of property commencing at
                              the northeast corner of Section 24, containing
1985-7            7-15-85     1.667 acres, which property is generally located
                              south of East Main Street and north of the boat
                              dock and is currently used for vacant land.
1997-12           10-6-97     Authorizing the sale of a certain 1983 Chevrolet
                              Caprice automobile.
                              Authorizing the sale of part of the northeast
Res No. 1999-103  9-7-99      quarter of Section 24, Township 46 North, Range 1
                              East of the Third Principal Meridian to Hononegah
                              Community High School.
                              Authorizing the sale of approximately 3,600
                              square feet that was previously the railroad
Res. No. 2007-101 2-20-07     right-of-way located north of Hawick Street and
                              east of what used to be the Green Street right-
                              of-way, consisting of part of Lots 7 through 12,
                              inclusive, of Block 10.
 
TABLE VI: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1954- 1-25-  Vacating a portion of Chapel Street.
3     54
1984-        Vacating the alley between Lot 12 of Block 1 of Adams and Company Addition to
7     8-6-84 the village and Lot 13 of Block 13 of Adams and Company Addition to the
             village.
             Vacating all that portion of Cottage Street from the portion that had been
1992- 7-6-92 previously vacated north approximately 204 feet to the northerly boundary of
11           the property formerly known as the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
             Company.
2003- 4-8-03 Vacating a portion of Baumgartner Trail located north of Moloney Drive.
6
2003- 12-2-  Vacating a portion of River Street between Ferry Street to the I.C.&E.
24    03     Railroad.
2008-        Vacating East River Street, commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 4,
12    5-6-08 Thayer’s Addition, thence along the east line of Ferry Street for a total of
             4,766 square feet.
2009- 4-21-  Vacating a portion of Kocher Street.
10    09
2011- 12-6-  Vacating part of Center Street lying adjacent to Lot 5, Block 12 Adams & Co's
20    11     Addition to the Village of Rockton.
 
TABLE VII: VARIANCES; SPECIAL USES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1997-    10-20-97    Granting Variance Application No. 997-4 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 303 East Union Street.
1997-    10-20-97    Granting Variance Application No. 997-7 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 428 Green Street.
1997-20  12-1-97     Granting special use to Application No. 1197-4 permitting
                     a roof-top for Norte Inc.
                     Granting special use to Application No. 1197-8 allowing
1998-3   1-5-98      the use of the property at 222 East Main Street for
                     residential purposes.
1998-5   3-16-98     Granting Variance Application No. 198-4 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 201 West Main Street.
1998-9   4-20-98     Granting Variance Application No. 398-4 seeking a variance
                     from the property located at 123 West Warren Street.
1998-12  6-1-98      Granting Variance Application No. 598-3 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 515 Ferry Street.
1998-13  6-1-98      Granting Variance Application No. 598-5 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 522 West Warren Street.
1998-19  9-8-98      Granting Variance Application No. 798-45 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 413 East Main Street.
                     Granting Variance Application No. 798-42 seeking a
1998-20  9-8-98      variance for the property located at 734 East Warren
                     Street.
1998-21  9-21-98     Granting Variance Application No. 898-12 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 101 Bunn Drive.
1998-22  9-21-98     Granting Variance Application No. 998-2 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 102 West Chapel Street.
                     Granting special use to Application No. 499-3 allowing the
1999-8   6-7-99      use of the property at 216 East Main Street for
                     residential purposes.
1999-9   6-7-99      Granting Variance Application No. 499-2 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 213 West Franklin Street.
                     Granting special use to Application No. 799-4 allowing the
1999-12  9-7-99      building of a commercial accessory structure at 201 North
                     Blackhawk Boulevard.
1999-20  11-1-99     Granting Variance Application No. 999-8 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 310 Echo Drive.
1999-28  12-20-99    Granting Variance Application No. 1199-3 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 215 Shoreland Drive.
1999-29  12-20-99    Granting Variance Application No. 1199-5 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 747 Old River Road.
2000-02  2-21-00     Granting Variance Application No. 00-15 seeking a variance
                     for the property located at 200 Hawick Street.
                     Granting special use to Application No. 2000-01 allowing
2000-7   3-20-00     residential use of the premises at 113 North Prairie
                     Street.
2000-21  8-7-00      Granting Variance Application No. 6-2000-5 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 505 Ferry Street.
2000-24  8-21-00     Granting Variance Application No. 6-2000-4 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 222 East Main Street.
                     Granting Special Use Application No. 7-2000-15 allowing an
2000-25  8-21-00     exercise and fitness center use of a commercial highway
                     district structure at 625 North Blackhawk.
2000-32  11-6-00     Granting Variance Application No. 9-2000-9 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 107 Bunn Drive.
2001-01  1-2-01      Granting Variance Application No. 11-2000-7 seeking a
                     variance for the property located at 103 North Street.
2007-2   2-20-07     Approving a special use permit for 221 East Main Street.
                     Granting a special use permit to Application No. 1107-5,
2007-28  12-18-07    allowing a drive-thru facility for a financial institution
                     located at 4693 East Rockton Road.
2009-11B 6-2-09      Granting a special use permit for 12734 Old River Road
                     allowing stabling and riding of horses.
2009-19  11-17-09    Granting a special use permit for 0000 N. Main Street
                     allowing use of the property for school purposes.
2009-22  11-17-09    Granting a special use permit for 794 Rockton Road
                     allowing use of property for green space for the school.
                     Granting a special use permit for 4638 Rockton Road
2010-11  6-8-10      allowing operation of banks or fast-food restaurants with
                     drive-through, or for automotive service and lube centers.
                     Granting a special use permit for 12388 Old River Road
2010-15  7-6-10      allowing construction of one-family detached dwelling on
                     the UT zoned portion of the property.
2011-15  5-17-11     Granting a variance for signage and sidewalk for 4567 East
                     Rockton Road.
 
TABLE VIII: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No.5 Date Passed Description
Ord. No.5 Date Passed Description
                      Annexing all that part of the north half of the northwest
1956-2    - -56       quarter of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of
                      the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing the west half of the northeast quarter of
                      Section 25, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third
1961-6    8-7-61      Principal Meridian; and all of the northwest quarter of
                      Section 25, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third
                      Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing Lots 1 through 9, inclusive, Lot 10 and Lots 11
1967-6    10-2-67     through 14, inclusive and Outlet A as designated upon the
                      plat of L.J. Cork Subdivision.
1973-1A   2-5-73      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
                      Township 46 North, Range 2 East, Rockton Township.
                      Annexing part of the east half of the northeast quarter
5-1973    8-6-73      of Section 25, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
6-1973    8-6-73      Annexing part of the west half of Section 19, Township 46
                      North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the south half of Section 18 and part of
7-1973    8-6-73      the north half of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range 2
                      East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing that part of the northwest quarter of the
1974-4    11-4-74     northwest quarter of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range
                      2 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
1976-6    7-19-76     Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
1978-1    3-20-78     Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northeast quarter of Section 13,
79-5      11-19-79    Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing the west part of the southwest quarter of
1982-5    6-21-82     Section 19 and the southwest part of the northwest
                      quarter of Section 19 in Township 46 North of Range 2
                      East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
                      Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
1987-5    6-29-87     Meridian; and the west half of the northeast quarter of
                      Section 19, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third
                      Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing the west half of the southwest fractional
1987-6    12-29-87    quarter of Section 18 in Township 46 North, Range 2 East
                      of the Third Principal Meridian, containing 94 acres.
                      Annexing Lots 1 and 55 as designated on the Plat of
1988-17   9-19-88     Wright and Kiles Blackhawk Acres, being a subdivision of
                      part of the northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 46
                      North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of Lot 2 as designated on the Plat of
1988-18   9-19-88     Wright and Kiles Blackhawk Acres, being a subdivision of
                      part of the northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 46
                      North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing Lot 3 as designated on the Plat of Wright and
1988-19   9-19-88     Kiles Blackhawk Acres, being a subdivision of part of the
                      northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 46 North, Range
                      1 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
1988-20   9-19-88     Township 40 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 13,
1989-3    4-17-89     Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the west half of the east half of the
                      northeast quarter of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range
1989-13   12-18-89    2 East of the Third Principal Meridian, excepting
                      therefrom part of the east half of the northeast quarter
                      of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing the east half of the east half of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 19 in Township 46 North, Range 2 East
1992-3    1-6-92      of the Third Principal Meridian, excepting therefrom the
                      rights granted to South Beloit Water, Gas and Electric
                      Company.
                      Annexing the northwest quarter of Section 17, Township 46
                      North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal Meridian,
1992-5    1-6-92      except the north 30 acres thereof and part of the
                      southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of said
                      section.
                      Annexing Lots 6 and 7 as designated upon the Plat of
1992-7    3-2-92      Wright and Kyles Blackhawk Acres, being a part of the
                      northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 46 North, Range
                      1 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the east half of the northeast quarter
1992-15   12-21-92    of Section 19, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing Lot 5 as designated on the Plat of Wright &
1994-14   11-7-94     Kyles Blackhawk Acres, being a part of the northeast
                      quarter of Section 13, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of
                      the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the fractional northwest quarter of
1996-10   4-15-96     Section 13, Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third
                      Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the west half of the southeast quarter
1996-15   7-15-96     of Section 19 in Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
1996-17   7-15-96     Annexing certain territory to the Village of Rockton.
1996-20   9-3-96      Annexing certain territory to the Village of Rockton.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
1996-23   9-16-96     Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 19,
                      Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal
1999-10   7-19-99     Meridian; and part of the northwest quarter of Section
                      19, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third
                      Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the east half of the southwest quarter
1999-14   10-4-99     of Section 18 in Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing part of the east half of the southwest quarter
1999-26   11-15-99    of Section 18, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the
                      Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing the south half of Lot 59 as designated upon the
2000-6    5-1-00      Plat of Wright & Kyles Blackhawk Acres, being part of the
                      northeast quarter of Section 13, Township 46 North, Range
                      1 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
                      Annexing the southeast quarter of Section 25, Township 46
                      North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal Meridian; also
                      all that part of the northwest fractional quarter of
                      Section 30, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of the Third
                      Principal Meridian; also part of the southwest fractional
                      quarter of Section 30, Township 46 North, Range 2 East of
2000-27   10-2-00     the Third Principal Meridian; also the northerly three
                      acres of all that part of the south part of the southeast
                      quarter of Section 30; also that part of Old River Road
                      (County Highway 64) in the east half of Section 25,
                      Township 46 North, Range 1 East of the Third Principal
                      Meridian and in the west half of Section 30, Township 46
                      North, Range 2 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
2004-1    2-4-04      Annexing the territory commonly known as 900 North
                      Prairie Street to the village.
2004-12   4-6-04      Annexing certain territory from L.E. Boeske and Harold D.
                      Crays, Jr. to the village.
2004-20   9-8-04      Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement for
                      the village and Dem-Or-Ex Inc.
2004-21   9-8-04      Annexing 7.961 acres as Agricultural and 75.352 acres as
                      General Industrial from Dem-Or-Ex Inc. to the village.
2005-9    4-19-05     Annexing approximately 95 acres located on Wagon Wheel
                      Road.
2005-10   4-19-05     Annexing approximately 95 acres located on Wagon Wheel
                      Road.
2005-11   3-8-05      Annexing certain territory.
2005-12   5-3-05      Annexing certain territory.
2005-22   6-21-05     Annexing approximately 156 acres located on the south of
                      Rockton Road.
2005-26   6-21-05     Annexing certain territory.
2006-13   9-19-06     Annexing approximately 137 acres located on Freeport Road
                      and N. Rockton Avenue.
2007-4    1-16-07     Annexing certain territory.
2007-8    3-6-07      Annexing certain territory located on 12134 Old River
                      Road.
2007-9    3-6-07      Annexing certain property located at 12134 Old River
                      Road.
2007-12   3-20-07     Annexing approximately 609 acres located along Roscoe,
                      Liddle, Old River and Sprague Roads.
2007-15   3-20-07     Annexing approximately 609 acres located along Roscoe,
                      Liddle, Old River and Sprague Roads.
2007-16   5-15-07     Annexing approximately 2.3 acres located at 668 Rockton
                      Road.
2007-24   9-5-07      Annexing approximately 0.4995 acres located on Old River
                      Road.
2008-014  8-18-08     Annexing approximately nine acres situated due east of
                      Prairie Street.
2009-004  2-9-09      Annexing approximately 32 acres located on Old River
                      Road.
2009-005  2-9-09      Annexing approximately 32.19 acres located on Old River
                      Road.
                      Annexing approximately 4.59 acres located at the
2009-007  2-9-09      northwest corner of the intersection of Aspland Drive and
                      Union Street.
2009-13A  7-21-09     Annexing approximately 5.76 acres commonly known as 11577
                      Old River Road.
2009-17   11-17-09    Approving the annexation agreement for approximately
                      83.88 acres commonly known as 0000 North Main Street.
2009-18   11-17-09    Annexing approximately 83.88 acres commonly known as 0000
                      North Main Street.
2009-20   11-17-09    Approving the annexation agreement for approximately 0.8
                      acres commonly known as 794 Rockton Road.
2009-21   11-17-09    Annexing approximately 0.8 acres commonly known as 794
                      Rockton Road.
2010-09   6-8-10      Approving the annexation agreement for approximately
                      8.283 acres commonly known as 4638 Rockton Road.
2010-10   6-8-10      Annexing approximately 8.283 acres commonly known as 4638
                      Rockton Road.
2010-14   7-6-10      Approving the annexation agreement for approximately 7.53
                      acres commonly known as 12388 Old River Road.
2011-6    2-8-11      Annexing approximately 17.82 acres located at the
                      southwest corner of Rockton Road and Illinois Route 251.
2011-12   5-3-11      Approving annexation agreement for property at 903 N.
                      Prairie.
2011-13   5-3-11      Annexing approximately 2.41 acres commonly known as 903
                      N. Prairie.
2014-3    1-21-14     Annexing approximately 80.311 acres commonly known as
                      11369 North Main Street.
2016-12   4-19-16     Annexing Lot 9 of Wright & Kiles Blackhawk Acres commonly
                      known as 1012 N. Blackhawk Boulevard.
2016-30   12-20-16    Annexing Lot 8 of Wright & Kiles Blackhawk Acres commonly
                      known as XXX Blackhawk Boulevard.
2017-11   5-16-17     Annexing territory commonly known as 1007 Watts Avenue.
2017-39   12-19-17    Annexing territory commonly known as 200 W. Hononegah
                      Road.
2018-9    3-19-18     Annexing territory commonly known as 683 Liddle Road.
2018-30   12-4-18     Annexing territory commonly known as 13635 Aspland Drive.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolution
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                                  Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.07                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.5                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                                10.04
                                           30.55,
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                       32.04,
                                           32.24
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.                   10.02
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.                     33.20
5 ILCS 430/5-15                            33.20
5 ILCS 430/10-10—10-40                   33.20
5 ILCS 430/50-5                            33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5                            33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                         33.20
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                         33.20
20 ILCS 605-1115                           113.01
20 ILCS 686/95                             113.01
20 ILCS 830                                151.068,
                                           152.184
20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.                     135.02
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                          135.02
20 ILCS 2910/0.01 et seq.                  137.02
35 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                        34.002
35 ILCS 45/110-95                          113.01
35 ILCS 115/9                              34.003
35 ILCS 120/3                              34.004
35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                      118.14
35 ILCS 130/Art. 3 et seq.                 118.14
35 ILCS 145/1                              34.023
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.                      113.01
35 ILCS 635/10                             113.01
35 ILCS 645/15 et seq.                     95.05
40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.                    31.20,
                                           31.22
40 ILCS 5/3-106                            31.21
40 ILCS 5/3-128                            31.21
40 ILCS 5/3-134                            31.23
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                       34.067
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                      31.30
55 ILCS 5/3-9005                           137.02
65 ILCS                                    151.060
65 ILCS 5                                  10.02,
                                           53.76
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                            153.01
65 ILCS 5/2.1 et seq.                      35.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                        32.39
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                           34.004
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4                         34.003
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6                           34.002
                                           31.02,
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.                 32.38,
                                           32.41
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                           132.02
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8                          151.006
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                         153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                          92.102
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                          153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                          153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                          153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31.1 et seq.                  35.02
65 ILCS 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.                35.09
                                           51.078,
65 ILCS 5/11-139-8                         51.099,
                                           53.66,
                                           53.68
65 ILCS 205/1(b)                           151.004
210 ILCS 45/1-101 et seq.                  132.01
220 ILCS 5/3-105                           95.06
220 ILCS 5/9-202                           113.01
220 ILCS 5/9-221                           113.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222                           113.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                         113.01
220 ILCS 5/16-102                          95.06
220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(i)                     95.06
220 ILCS 5/21-100 et seq.                  95.05
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)                       95.05
220 ILCS 5/21-401                          95.05
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.                      95.05
220 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.                   95.05
220 ILCS 65/4                              95.05
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.                     52.04
230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.                      135.02,
                                           135.03
230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.                      135.02
230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.                      135.02
230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                      135.02
230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                      135.02
                                           112.24.
                                           112.46,
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                      135.02,
                                           135.03,
                                           135.05
235 ILCS                                   112.21
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                          112.24
235 ILCS 5/6-2 et seq.                     112.21
325 ILCS 5/4                               132.01
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.                      136.08
                                           136.01,
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.                     136.02,
                                           136.08
                                           136.01 -
410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                     136.04,
                                           136.06 -
                                           136.08
410 ILCS 705/10-5(b)                       136.02
410 ILCS 705/10-10                         136.02
410 ILCS 705/10-10(a)                      136.02
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                       52.04
415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.                      52.04
425 ILCS 35/2                              132.04
505 ILCS 89/1 et seq.                      136.01
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.                   95.05
625 ILCS                                   70.01
625 ILCS 5/Ch. 4 Art. II                   70.110
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                         72.14
625 ILCS 5/1-188                           10.02
625 ILCS 5/1-217                           131.02
625 ILCS 5/3-609                           72.14
625 ILCS 5/3-616                           72.14
625 ILCS 5/3-815                           71.08
625 ILCS 5/6-101                           70.110
625 ILCS 5/6-303                           70.110
625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.                   71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-301                          72.14
625 ILCS 5/11-501                          70.110,
                                           136.08
625 ILCS 5/11-502.1                        136.08
625 ILCS 5/11-503                          70.110
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1                       72.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                       72.14
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1                       71.16
625 ILCS 5/12-709                          71.16
625 ILCS 5/18b-101                         112.24
625 ILCS 5/18c-7201                        95.06
625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                      70.12
625 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                      73.05
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.                   132.02
720 ILCS 5                                 70.110
720 ILCS 5/Art. 16                         70.110
720 ILCS 5/Art. 16A                        70.110
720 ILCS 5/2-2                             130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-3                             130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-4                             130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-12                            130.01
720 ILCS 5/4-4                             130.02
720 ILCS 5/4-5                             130.03
720 ILCS 5/4-6                             130.04
720 ILCS 5/4-7                             130.05
720 ILCS 5/8-4                             130.06
720 ILCS 5/11-9                            134.01
720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (g)                  134.02
720 ILCS 5/11-21                           134.03
720 ILCS 5/12-1                            132.06
720 ILCS 5/12-3                            132.07
720 ILCS 5/12-12                           134.01
720 ILCS 5/21-1(a)                         131.03
720 ILCS 5/21-1.4                          131.04
720 ILCS 5/21-2                            131.07
720 ILCS 5/21-3                            131.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1                            70.110
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)                         137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(6)                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(7)                      137.01,
                                           137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-1(a)(9)                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(c)(2)                      137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1(e)                         137.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5                          70.110
720 ILCS 5/24-2                            137.02
720 ILCS 5/24-3                            70.110
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                          137.03
720 ILCS 5/24-6                            137.04
720 ILCS 5/24.8-1                          137.11
720 ILCS 5/24.8-2                          137.12
720 ILCS 5/24.8-3                          137.13
720 ILCS 5/24.8-4                          137.14
720 ILCS 5/24.8-5                          137.15
720 ILCS 5/26-1                            132.01
720 ILCS 5/26-1(a)(1), (6), (7), (8), (11) 132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-1                            135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)                         135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(4)                      135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(12)                     132.01
720 ILCS 5/28-1(b)                         135.02
720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)(1) - (a)(4)             135.01
720 ILCS 5/28-2(a)(1), (2), (3), (4)       135.01
720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)                         114.03
720 ILCS 5/28-3                            135.03
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                         135.04
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                         135.04
720 ILCS 5/31-1                            133.01
720 ILCS 5/31-8                            133.02
720 ILCS 5/32-9                            133.03
720 ILCS 5/36-1                            70.110
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.                     70.110,
                                           136.02
720 ILCS 550/3 et seq.                     70.110,
                                           136.01
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.                   70.110,
                                           136.03
720 ILCS 570/102 et seq.                   70.110,
                                           136.01
720 ILCS 635/.01 et seq.                   136.01
725 ILCS 5/112A-3                          131.02
725 ILCS 5/112A-14(b)                      131.02
725 ILCS 210/1 et seq.                     137.02
                                           35.11,
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.                   35.12,
                                           70.110
765 ILCS                                   151.060
765 ILCS 205                               151.042
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.                     151.009
765 ILCS 205/2                             153.08
765 ILCS 605                               151.012
820 ILCS 185/1 et seq.                     34.006
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.                     95.05
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
1999-103 9-7-99      T.S.O. V
2003-13  5-6-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-104 7-22-03     T.S.O. IV
2006-107 11-6-06     152.446
2006-111 12-19-06    32.24
2007-101 2-20-07     T.S.O. V
2007-111 12-4-07     32.24
2009-112 12-8-09     32.24
2011-114 12-6-11     32.24
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.             Date Passed Code Section
1954-1               1-4-54      110.30–
                                 110.42
1954-3               1-25-54     T.S.O. VI
1956-2               - -56       T.S.O. VIII
1957-2               2-18-57     150.02
                                 92.001,
                                 92.002,
1957-4               3-18-57     92.020–
                                 92.034,
                                 92.065,
                                 92.066
1957-14              11-18-57    T.S.O. V
1961-6               8-7-61      T.S.O. VIII
1962-7               10-1-62     95.04
1967-6               10-2-67     T.S.O. VIII
1969-7               9-15-69     34.004
1970-8               12-21-70    T.S.O. IV
1970-9               12-21-70    T.S.O. IV
1973-1A              2-5-73      T.S.O. VIII
1973-1               4-23-73     T.S.O. IV
5-1973               8-6-73      T.S.O. VIII
6-1973               8-6-73      T.S.O. VIII
7-1973               8-6-73      T.S.O. VIII
—, § 100          1-15-74     151.001
—, § 101          1-15-74     151.002
—, § 102          1-15-74     151.003
—, § 103          1-15-74     151.004
—, § 200          1-15-74     151.005
—, § 301          1-15-74     151.012
—, § 400          1-15-74     151.007
—, § 500          1-15-74     151.020
—, § 501          1-15-74     151.021
—, § 502          1-15-74     151.022
—, § 503          1-15-74     151.023
—, § 504          1-15-74     151.024
—, § 505          1-15-74     151.025
—, § 506          1-15-74     151.999
—, § 507          1-15-74     151.026
—, § 508          1-15-74     151.027
—, § 509          1-15-74     151.028
—, § 510          1-15-74     151.029
                                 Ch. 151, Appendix, §§
—, § 903          1-15-74     1–
                                 10
—, § 1000         1-15-74     151.060
—, § 1001         1-15-74     151.061
—, § 1002         1-15-74     151.062
—, § 1003         1-15-74     151.063
—, § 1004         1-15-74     151.064
1974-4               11-4-74     T.S.O. VIII
1976-6               7-19-76     T.S.O. VIII
1978-1               3-20-78     T.S.O. VIII
1979-1               - -         34.004
79-5                 11-19-79    T.S.O. VIII
1981-12              12-7-81     T.S.O. V
1982-5               6-21-87     T.S.O. VIII
1982-6               7-6-82      33.01
1982-10              9-7-82      T.S.O. V
1983-8               8-15-83     50.02
1984-2               1-3-84      95.02
1984-7               8-6-84      T.S.O. VI
1985-2               5-20-85     34.020–
                                 34.023
                                 70.02–
                                 70.13;
                                 70.25–
                                 70.29;
                                 70.50–
                                 70.60;
                                 70.99;
                                 71.01–
                                 71.08,
                                 71.10–
                                 71.12;
                                 72.01–
                                 72.12;
                                 72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Scheds. I–
                                 V;
1985-3               - -         Ch. 75, Scheds. I–
                                 III;
                                 91.01;
                                 92.080–
                                 92.084;
                                 93.01–
                                 93.08;
                                 95.03;
                                 111.01–
                                 111.07;
                                 132.03;
                                 132.04;
                                 132.06;
                                 132.07;
                                 134.10–
                                 134.12;
                                 136.02
1985-6               8-5-85      96.01–
                                 96.08
1985-7               7-15-85     T.S.O. V
1985-9               12-2-85     30.01–
                                 30.18
1986-1               3-17-86     30.30–
                                 30.43
1986-11              10-20-86    90.01
1987-5               6-29-87     T.S.O. VIII
1987-6               12-29-87    T.S.O. VIII
                                 53.01–
                                 53.07,
                                 53.20–
                                 53.35,
1988-3               3-21-88     53.50–
                                 53.53,
                                 53.65–
                                 53.69,
                                 53.71–
                                 53.78
                                 51.001–
                                 51.014,
                                 51.025–
                                 51.038,
                                 51.050–
1988-4               3-28-88     51.060,
                                 51.075–
                                 51.080,
                                 51.095–
                                 51.098,
                                 51.999
                                 92.095–
                                 92.102,
                                 92.115–
1988-6               7-5-88      92.119,
                                 92.130–
                                 92.132,
                                 92.999
1988-12              5-16-88     T.S.O. IV
1988-17              9-19-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-18              9-19-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-19              9-19-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-20              9-19-88     T.S.O. VIII
1988-21              11-7-88     34.002
89-1                 3-6-89      72.12
1989-3               4-17-89     T.S.O. VIII
                                 151.028,
1989-11              12-4-89     151.029,
                                 151.061,
                                 151.999
1989-13              12-18-89    T.S.O. VIII
1989-14              12-18-89    T.S.O. II
1990-1               2-5-90      T.S.O. II
1990-3               4-16-90     151.061
1990-                6-4-90      150.03
1990-10              8-6-90      50.01
1991-6               7-15-91     53.04
1991-                11-4-91     34.023
1992-1               1-6-92      51.009,
                                 51.078
1992-3               1-6-92      T.S.O. VIII
1992-5               1-6-92      T.S.O. VIII
1992-7               3-2-92      T.S.O. VIII
1992-11              7-6-92      T.S.O. VI
1992-15              12-21-92    T.S.O. VIII
                                 Ch. 152, Appendices
1994-3               5-15-94     1,
                                 2
1994-3, § 100       5-16-94     152.001
1994-3, § 101       5-16-94     152.002
1994-3, § 102       5-16-94     152.003
1994-3, § 103       5-16-94     152.004
1994-3, § 104       5-16-94     152.005
1994-3, § 105       5-16-94     152.006
1994-3, § 106       5-16-94     152.007
1994-3, § 107       5-16-94     152.008
1994-3, § 200       5-16-94     152.020
1994-3, § 201       5-16-94     152.021
1994-3, § 202       5-16-94     152.022
1994-3, § 203       5-16-94     152.023
1994-3, § 204       5-16-94     152.024
1994-3, § 205       5-16-94     152.025
1994-3, § 206       5-16-94     152.026
1994-3, § 300       5-16-94     152.035
1994-3, § 301       5-16-94     152.036
1994-3, § 302       5-16-94     152.037
1994-3, § 303       5-16-94     152.038
1994-3, § 304       5-16-94     152.039
1994-3, § 305       5-16-94     152.040
1994-3, § 400       5-16-94     152.050
1994-3, § 401       5-16-94     152.051
1994-3, § 402       5-16-94     152.052
1994-3, § 403       5-16-94     152.053
1994-3, § 404       5-16-94     152.054
1994-3, § 405       5-16-94     152.055
1994-3, § 500       5-16-94     152.065
1994-3, § 501       5-16-94     152.066
1994-3, § 502       5-16-94     152.067
1994-3, § 503       5-16-94     152.068
1994-3, § 504       5-16-94     152.069
1994-3, § 505       5-16-94     152.070
1994-3, § 600       5-16-94     152.080
1994-3, § 601       5-16-94     152.081
1994-3, § 602       5-16-94     152.082
1994-3, § 603       5-16-94     152.083
1994-3, § 700       5-16-94     152.100
1994-3, § 701       5-16-94     152.101
1994-3, § 702       5-16-94     152.102
1994-3, § 703       5-16-94     152.103
1994-3, § 800       5-16-94     152.115
1994-3, § 801       5-16-94     152.116
1994-3, § 802       5-16-94     152.117
1994-3, § 803       5-16-94     152.118
1994-3, § 900       5-16-94     152.150
1994-3, § 901       5-16-94     152.151
1994-3, § 902       5-16-94     152.152
1994-3, § 903       5-16-94     152.153
1994-3, § 1000      5-16-94     152.165
1994-3, § 1001      5-16-94     152.166
1994-3, § 1002      5-16-94     152.167
1994-3, § 1003      5-16-94     152.168
1994-3, § 1004      5-16-94     152.169
1994-3, § 1005      5-16-94     152.170
1994-3, § 1100      5-16-94     152.180
1994-3, § 1101      5-16-94     152.181
1994-3, §§ 1102–15-16-94     152.182
1994-3, §§ 1105–15-16-94     152.183
1994-3, § 1200      5-16-94     152.195
1994-3, § 1201      5-16-94     152.196
1994-3, § 1202      5-16-94     152.197
1994-3, § 1203      5-16-94     152.198
1994-3, § 1204      5-16-94     152.199
1994-3, § 1205      5-16-94     152.200
1994-3, § 1206      5-16-94     152.201
1994-3, § 1207      5-16-94     152.202
1994-3, § 1208      5-16-94     152.203
1994-3, § 1209      5-16-94     152.204
1994-3, § 1300      5-16-94     152.215
1994-3, § 1302      5-16-94     152.216
1994-3, § 1303      5-16-94     152.217
1994-3, § 1304      5-16-94     152.218
1994-3, § 1305      5-16-94     152.219
1994-3, § 1306      5-16-94     152.220
1994-3, § 1406      5-16-94     152.241
1994-3, § 1500      5-16-94     152.255
1994-3, § 1501      5-16-94     152.256
1994-3, § 1502      5-16-94     152.257
1994-3, § 1503      5-16-94     152.258
1994-3, § 1504      5-16-94     152.259
1994-3, § 1505      5-16-94     152.260
1994-3, § 1506      5-16-94     152.262
1994-3, § 1509      5-16-94     152.263
1994-3, § 1600      5-16-94     152.275
1994-3, § 1601      5-16-94     152.276
1994-3, § 1602      5-16-94     152.277
1994-3, § 1603      5-16-94     152.278
1994-3, § 1606      5-16-94     152.279
1994-3, § 1607      5-16-94     152.280
1994-3, § 1608      5-16-94     152.281
1994-3, § 1700      5-16-94     152.295
1994-3, § 1701      5-16-94     152.296
1994-3, § 1702      5-16-94     152.297
1994-3, § 1800      5-16-94     152.305
1994-3, § 1900      5-16-94     152.315
1994-3, § 1901      5-16-94     152.316
1994-3, § 1902      5-16-94     152.317
1994-3, § 1903      5-16-94     152.318
1994-3, § 2000      5-16-94     152.440
1994-3, § 2001      5-16-94     152.441
1994-3, § 2002      5-16-94     152.442
1994-3, § 2003      5-16-94     152.443
1994-3, § 2004      5-16-94     152.444
1994-3, § 2005      5-16-94     152.445
1994-3, § 2100      5-16-94     152.330
1994-3, § 2101      5-16-94     152.331
1994-3, § 2102      5-16-94     152.332
1994-3, § 2103      5-16-94     152.333
1994-3, § 2104      5-16-94     152.334
1994-3, § 2105      5-16-94     152.335
1994-3, § 2106      5-16-94     152.336
1994-3, § 2107      5-16-94     152.337
1994-3, § 2108      5-16-94     152.338
1994-3, § 2200      5-16-94     152.350
1994-3, § 2201      5-16-94     152.351
1994-3, § 2202      5-16-94     152.352
1994-3, § 2203      5-16-94     152.353
1994-3, § 2204      5-16-94     152.354
1994-3, § 2205      5-16-94     152.355
1994-3, § 2206      5-16-94     152.356
1994-3, § 2207      5-16-94     152.357
1994-3, § 2208      5-16-94     152.358
1994-3, § 2209      5-16-94     152.359
1994-3, § 2210      5-16-94     152.360
1994-3, § 2211      5-16-94     152.361
1994-3, § 2300      5-16-94     152.390
1994-3, § 2301      5-16-94     152.391
1994-3, § 2302      5-16-94     152.392
1994-3, § 2303      5-16-94     152.393
1994-3, § 2304      5-16-94     152.394
1994-3, § 2305      5-16-94     152.395
1994-3, § 2306      5-16-94     152.396
1994-3, § 2307      5-16-94     152.397
1994-3, § 2308      5-16-94     152.398
1994-3, § 2309      5-16-94     152.399
1994-3, § 2310      5-16-94     152.400
1994-3, § 2400      5-16-94     152.375
1994-3, § 2401      5-16-94     152.376
1994-3, § 2402      5-16-94     152.377
1994-3, § 2403      5-16-94     152.378
1994-3, § 2500      5-16-94     152.410
1994-3, § 2501      5-16-94     152.411
1994-3, § 2502      5-16-94     152.412
1994-3, § 2503      5-16-94     152.413
1994-3, § 2504      5-16-94     152.414
1994-3, § 2505      5-16-94     152.415
1994-3, § 2506      5-16-94     152.416
1994-3, § 2600      5-16-94     152.425
1994-3, § 2601      5-16-94     152.426
1994-3, § 2602      5-16-94     152.427
1994-3, § 2603      5-16-94     152.428
1994-3, § 2604      5-16-94     152.429,
                                 152.999
1994-14              11-7-94     T.S.O. VIII
1994-16              12-19-94    70.01
1995-2               1-16-95     132.05
                                 73.01–
1995-3               2-20-95     73.05,
                                 73.99
1995-39              8-21-95     71.13
1995-41              10-2-95     95.01
1995-42              9-18-95     90.01
1995-49              12- -95     151.061
1996-1               2-5-96      33.05
1996-3               3-4-96      T.S.O. III
1996-5               3-4-96      151.061
1996-7               3-4-96      53.66
1996-10              4-15-96     T.S.O. VIII
1996-15              7-15-96     T.S.O. VIII
1996-17              7-15-96     T.S.O. VIII
                                 152.130–
1996-18              9-3-96      152.133,
                                 152.135–
                                 152.140
1996-20              9-3-96      T.S.O. VIII
1996-23              9-16-96     T.S.O. VIII
1996-26              11-18-96    33.02
1996-27              11-18-96    152.153
                                 151.028,
                                 152.009,
                                 152.256,
1996-28              12-16-96    152.351,
                                 152.376,
                                 152.391,
                                 152.442
1997-1               - -97       152.153
1997-4               6-2-97      134.13
1997-6               7-21-97     Ch. 74, Sched. IV
                                 112.01,
                                 112.20–
1997-7               8-4-97      112.26,
                                 112.40–
                                 112.49
1997-                10-20-97    T.S.O. VII
1997-                10-20-97    T.S.O. VII
1997-8               8-18-97     112.24
1997-10              9-15-97     151.029
1997-12              10-6-97     T.S.O. V
1997-13              9-15-97     Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1997-14              9-15-97     Ch. 74, Sched. III
1997-17              11-3-97     90.02
1997-20              12-1-97     T.S.O. VII
1997-21              12-15-97    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1997-22              12-15-97    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1998-1               1-5-98      53.66
                                 94.01–
1998-2               2-2-98      94.09,
                                 94.99
1998-3               1-5-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-5               3-16-98     T.S.O. VII
1998-7               4-6-98      95.01
1998-8               4- -98      33.06
1998-9               4-20-98     T.S.O. VII
1998-12              6-1-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-13              6-1-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-14              6-15-98     51.025,
                                 53.21
1998-16              8-3-98      Ch. 75, Sched. I
                                 53.01,
1998-17              9-8-98      53.02,
                                 53.33,
                                 53.68
1998-19              9-8-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-20              9-8-98      T.S.O. VII
1998-21              9-21-98     T.S.O. VII
1998-22              9-21-98     T.S.O. VII
1998-24              9-21-98     112.43
1998-25              11-2-98     150.01
1998-26              11-12-98    Ch. 75, Sched. II
                                 114.01–
                                 114.05,
                                 114.20–
1998-27              12-21-98    114.23,
                                 114.35–
                                 114.37,
                                 114.99
                                 52.01–
                                 52.07,
                                 52.20–
                                 52.22,
1998-28              12-7-98     52.35–
                                 52.37,
                                 52.50–
                                 52.54,
                                 52.99
1999-                9-20-99     Ch. 74, Sched. II
1999-3               4-19-99     Ch. 75, Sched. II
1999-4               5-17-99     53.66
1999-8               6-7-99      T.S.O. VII
1999-9               6-7-99      T.S.O. VII
1999-10              7-19-99     T.S.O. VIII
1999-11              - -99       112.45
1999-12              9-7-99      T.S.O. VII
1999-14              10-4-99     T.S.O. VIII
1999-15              9-19-99     Ch. 75, Sched. II
1999-16              10-4-99     Ch. 75, Sched. II
1999-17              10-4-99     Ch. 75, Sched. II
1999-18              11-15-99    53.28
                                 53.01,
1999-19              11-15-99    53.67,
                                 53.68
1999-20              11-1-99     T.S.O. VII
1999-23              12-6-99     34.035–
                                 34.051
1999-26              11-15-99    T.S.O. VIII
1999-28              12-20-99    T.S.O. VII
1999-29              12-20-99    T.S.O. VII
2000-1               - -00       33.03
2000-02              2-21-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-6               5-1-00      T.S.O. VIII
2000-7               3-20-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-8               4-3-00      Ch. 74, Sched. VI
2000-10              4-3-00      32.20–
                                 32.26
2000-15              6-19-00     30.55
2000-16              6-19-00     33.04
2000-18              7-5-00      112.24
2000-19              8-21-00     110.01–
                                 110.04
2000-20              - -00       32.01–
                                 32.07
2000-21              8-7-00      T.S.O. VII
                                 53.01,
2000-22              - -00       53.66,
                                 53.70
2000-24              8-21-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-25              8-21-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-27              10-2-00     T.S.O. VIII
2000-28              10-2-00     Ch. 74, Sched. V
                                 53.01,
2000-29              1-2-01      53.21,
                                 53.68
2000-32              11-6-00     T.S.O. VII
2000-33              12-18-00    34.065–
                                 34.082
2000-34              12-4-00     T.S.O. I
2001-01              1-2-01      T.S.O. VII
2001-4               5-7-01      32.20–
                                 32.26
2001-7               - -         Ch. 74, Sched. V
2001-8               - -         Ch. 74, Sched. I
2001-9               8-21-01     32.35–
                                 32.41
2001-10              8-21-01     31.20–
                                 31.23
                                 117.01–
2001-13              11-20-01    117.08,
                                 117.99
2001-14              10-2-01     31.01–
                                 31.03
                                 117.04,
2002-2               4-16-02     117.06,
                                 117.08
2002-4               4-2-02      112.24
2002-5               5-21-02     91.01
2002-6               5-21-02     53.35
2002-7               7-2-02      Ch. 75, Sched. I
2002-8               10-8-02     Ch. 75, Sched. II
2002-10              4-16-02     51.061
2002-11              4-16-02     53.21
2002-12              8-20-02     93.09
2002-13              9-17-02     113.01–
                                 113.07
                                 136.01,
2002-16              5-21-02     136.03–
                                 136.07
2002-17              8-6-02      31.01,
                                 31.03
2002-19              9-17-02     72.99
2003-1               1-7-03      152.279
2003-4               2-18-03     118.01–
                                 118.17
2003-6               4-8-03      T.S.O. VI
2003-9               6-15-03     T.S.O. IV
2003-10              6-17-03     33.07
2003-11              6-17-03     32.20–
                                 32.26
2003-15              8-5-03      132.02
2003-16              8-19-03     Ch. 74, Sched. I
2003-21              8-21-03     110.50
2003-24              12-2-03     T.S.O. VI
2003-25(1)           9-3-03      91.01
2003-25(2)           12-16-03    51.078
2003-27              10-7-03     136.15
2004-1               2-4-04      T.S.O. VIII
2004-2               2-3-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-6               3-16-04     152.359
2004-8               5-18-04     150.01
2004-9               3-20-04     150.01
2004-10              5-4-04      132.02
2004-12              4-6-04      T.S.O. VIII
2004-13              5-4-04      33.20
2004-19              6-8-04      33.07
2004-20              9-8-04      T.S.O. VIII
2004-21              9-8-04      T.S.O. VIII
2004-23              9-20-04     113.02
2004-25              11-3-04     Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                                 Ch. 74, Sched. V
2004-26              11-3-04     33.08
2004-27              11-3-04     72.13
2004-28              11-3-04     Ch. 74, Sched. I;
                                 Ch. 74, Sched. V
                                 152.001–
                                 152.009,
                                 152.020–
                                 152.027,
                                 152.035–
                                 152.040,
                                 152.050–
                                 152.055,
                                 152.065–
                                 152.070,
                                 152.080–
                                 152.083,
                                 152.100–
                                 152.103,
                                 152.115–
                                 152.119,
                                 152.130–
                                 152.140,
                                 152.150–
                                 152.153,
                                 152.165–
                                 152.170,
                                 152.180–
                                 152.183,
                                 152.195–
                                 152.205,
                                 152.215–
                                 152.221,
2004-29              11-16-04    152.235 –
                                 152.244,
                                 152.255–
                                 152.264,
                                 152.275–
                                 152.281,
                                 152.295–
                                 152.297,
                                 152.305,
                                 152.315–
                                 152.318,
                                 152.330–
                                 152.338,
                                 152.350–
                                 152.361,
                                 152.375–
                                 152.378,
                                 152.390–
                                 152.400,
                                 152.410–
                                 152.416,
                                 152.425–
                                 152.429,
                                 152.440–
                                 152.445,
                                 152.999; Ch. 152, Appendices
                                 1,
                                 2,
                                 3
                                 151.001–
                                 151.012,
                                 151.020–
                                 151.029,
                                 151.040–
                                 151.055,
                                 151.060–
2004-30              11-16-04    151.067,
                                 151.070–
                                 151.074,
                                 151.080,
                                 151.081,
                                 151.999; Ch. 151, Appendix 1 §§
                                 1–
                                 10;
                                 Ch. 151, Appendix 2
2004-35              12-21-04    90.01
2005-9               4-19-05     T.S.O. VIII
2005-10              4-19-05     T.S.O. VIII
2005-11              3-8-05      T.S.O. VIII
2005-12              5-3-05      T.S.O. VIII
2005-14              5-17-05     71.14,
                                 71.15
2005-21              6-7-05      33.07
2005-22              6-21-05     T.S.O. VIII
2005-26              6-21-05     T.S.O. VIII
2005-27              6-21-05     T.S.O. III
2005-33              10-4-05     53.66
2005-38              2-21-06     53.66
2006-5               1-21-06     53.66
2006-7               6-6-06      33.07
2006-8               9-8-06      51.050
2006-9               7-18-06     Ch. 74, Sched. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sched. IV
2006-10              9-8-06      151.080
2006-11              9-8-06      132.04
2006-13              9-19-06     T.S.O. VIII
2006-14              9-19-06     53.21,
                                 150.01
2006-15              10-3-06     152.427
2006-15              11-21-06    152.426
                                 152.101,
                                 152.256,
2006-16              11-21-06    152.260,
                                 152.357,
                                 152.397,
                                 152.444
2006-17              11-6-06     53.71
2006-18              11-21-06    51.054
2006-19              11-21-06    53.03
2006-20              11-21-06    152.395
2006-22              12-5-06     Ch. 75, Sched. II
2007-1               1-16-07     72.12
2007-2               2-20-07     T.S.O. VII
2007-3               2-6-07      T.S.O. III
2007-4               1-16-07     T.S.O. VIII
2007-7               3-6-07      T.S.O. III
2007-8               3-6-07      T.S.O. III
2007-9               3-6-07      T.S.O. VIII
2007-12              3-20-07     T.S.O. VIII
2007-14              3-20-07     T.S.O. III
2007-15              3-20-07     T.S.O. VIII
2007-16              5-15-07     T.S.O. VIII
2007-18              5-15-07     T.S.O. III
2007-20              6-6-06      33.07
                                 Ch. 74, Sched. I;
2007-21              6-19-07     Ch. 75, Sched. I;
                                 Ch. 75, Sched. II
2007-22              7-10-07     Ch. 74, Sched. I
2007-23              9-5-07      T.S.O. III
2007-24              9-5-07      T.S.O. VIII
2007-28              12-18-07    T.S.O. VII
2008-2               1-8-08      71.08,
                                 71.09
2008-6               3-4-08      150.01
2008-7A              2-4-08      53.66
2008-7B              3-25-08     Ch. 74, Sched. III
2008-10              6-17-08     33.07
2008-12              5-6-08      T.S.O. VI
2008-014             8-19-08     T.S.O. VIII
2009-004             2-9-09      T.S.O. VIII
2009-005             2-9-09      T.S.O. VIII
2009-006             2-9-09      T.S.O. III
2009-007             2-9-09      T.S.O. VIII
2009-10              4-21-09     T.S.O. VI
2009-11A             6-2-09      T.S.O. III
2009-11B             6-2-09      T.S.O. VII
2009-12              6-2-09      Ch. 75, Sched. II
2009-13A             7-21-09     T.S.O. VIII
2009-17              11-17-09    T.S.O. VIII
2009-18              11-17-09    T.S.O. VIII
2009-19              11-17-09    T.S.O. VII
2009-20              11-17-09    T.S.O. VIII
2009-21              11-17-09    T.S.O. VIII
2009-22              11-17-09    T.S.O. VII
2010-01              1-5-10      95.03
2010-05              2-16-10     151.068
2010-06              2-16-10     152.021,
                                 152.184
2010-09              6-8-10      T.S.O. VIII
2010-10              6-8-10      T.S.O. VIII
2010-11              6-8-10      T.S.O. III,
                                 VII
2010-14              7-6-10      T.S.O. VIII
2010-15              7-6-10      T.S.O. III,
                                 VII
2010-16              8-17-10     152.052,
                                 152.053
                                 112.42,
2010-19              9-21-10     134.11,
                                 134.12
2010-20              11-1-10     134.14,
                                 134.99
2010-21              12-7-10     53.66
2011-3               2-8-11      152.256
2011-4               2-8-11      51.078
2011-5               2-8-11      T.S.O. III
2011-6               2-8-11      T.S.O. VIII
2011-10              3-22-11     Ch. 152, Appendix 3
2011-13              5-3-11      T.S.O. VIII
2011-14              5-3-11      T.S.O. III
2011-15              5-17-11     T.S.O. VII
2011-18              11-7-11     50.01
2011-20              12-6-11     T.S.O. VI
2011-111             8-2-11      33.30
2012-3               2-21-12     72.99
2012-4               3-6-12      31.30
2012-5               3-6-12      92.097
2012-6               4-3-12      115.01–
                                 115.10
2012-7               5-8-12      31.04
                                 112.46,
2012-9               6-5-12      135.02,
                                 135.03,
                                 135.05
2012-13              8-21-12     30.55
2012-14              8-21-12     30.55
2013-1               1-22-13     34.005,
                                 34.006
2013-7               5-7-13      30.60
2013-8               5-7-13      30.30–
                                 30.43
                                 30.60,
                                 30.70,
2013-18              9-3-13      30.71,
                                 30.72,
                                 30.80,
                               30.81,
                                 30.82
2013-19              9-17-13     112.24,
                                 112.46
2014-1               1-21-14     71.08
2014-3               1-21-14     T.S.O. VIII
2014-11              5-6-14      30.60
2014-15              5-21-14     Ch. 74, Sched. V
2014-16              6-3-14      116.01–
                                 116.07
                                 10.99,
                                 51.999,
                                 92.023,
2014-19              7-22-14     92.024,
                                 92.034,
                                 92.066,
                                 92.999
2014-22              8-19-14     53.21,
                                 53.22
2014-23              9-2-14      92.066
2014-31              12-2-14     95.05
2015-2               1-20-15     30.90
2015-9               2-3-15      T.S.O. I
2015-11              3-3-15      71.08,
                                 71.14
                                 10.99,
2015-16              5-19-15     35.01–
                                 35.15
2015-17              5-19-15     70.110
2015-22              6-16-15     92.065
2015-27              8-18-15     71.15
2015-34              10-6-15     112.24
2016-7               2-2-16      151.074
2016-8               3-14-16     34.001,
                                 34.006
2016-12              4-19-16     T.S.O. VIII
2016-18              6-21-16     118.02
2016-20              9-6-16      116.08
                                 153.01 -
2016-21              9-6-16      153.13,
                                 153.99
2016-24              10-4-16     Ch. 75, Sched. I
2016-30              12-20-16    T.S.O. VIII
2017-11              5-16-17     T.S.O. VIII
2017-15              6-6-17      53.65 -
                                 53.68
2017-19              7-18-17     31.40
2017-20              8-15-17     Ch. 75, Sched. V
                                 Ch. 75, Scheds.
2017-22              9-5-17      I and
                                 II
                                 Ch. 74, Scheds.
2017-24              10-3-17     II and
                                 V
2017-26              10-17-17    71.16
2017-29              10-17-17    72.14
                                 52.04,
2017-32              12-5-17     52.05,
                                 52.07
2017-39              12-19-17    T.S.O. VIII
2018-4               1-16-18     50.01
2018-5               2-6-18      51.078
2018-6               3-6-18      53.65 -
                                 53.68
2018-9               3-19-18     T.S.O. VIII
2018-11              3-19-18     152.168
2018-19              7-3-18      53.28
2018-22              8-21-18     95.01
2018-30              12-4-18     T.S.O. VIII
2018-32              11-20-18    118.16
2018-33              11-20-18    95.06
2019-4               4-16-19     112.24
2019-6               5-7-19      51.078
                                 54.01 -
2019-5               5-7-19      54.21,
                                 54.99
                                 119.01 -
2019-13              6-18-19     119.10,
                                 119.99
                                 118.01,
                                 118.02,
                                 118.06,
2019-14              7-2-19      118.08,
                                 118.09,
                                 118.14,
                                 118.16
2019-16              8-6-19      118.09,
                                 118.16
                                 51.007,
                                 51.025 -
                                 51.029,
                                 53.21,
2019-18              9-3-19      53.28,
                                 53.35,
                                 53.66,
                                 53.68,
                                 53.70,
                                 53.76
2019-23              12-17-19    136.01 -
                                 136.08
2020-4               3-26-20     33.40 -
                                 33.46
2020-7               5-5-20      90.03
2020-21              12-1-20     51.078
2021-3               1-19-21     51.078,
                                 53.66
2021-4               2-2-21      95.03
2021-6               5-18-21     Ch. 75, Sched. VI
2021-9               8-17-21     34.001
2022-3               4-19-22     Ch. 75, Sched. I
2022-7               6-7-22      50.01
2022-9               6-7-22      Ch. 75, Sched. I
                                 152.008,
2022-11              6-21-22     152.500 -
                                 152.510,
                                 Ch. 152, Appendix 3
2022-12              6-21-22     53.28
2022-13              6-21-22     112.24
2022-14              7-5-22      Ch. 75, Sched. I
2022-18              8-2-22      54.12
2022-19              8-2-22      135.05
2022-20              8-2-22      92.027
2022-22              9-6-22      112.24
2022-23              9-6-22      135.05
2022-24              9-20-22     118.03,
                                 118.05
2022-25              11-1-22     34.001
2022-29              11-15-22    152.277
                                 51.078,
                                 51.080,
2022-32              12-20-22    51.095,
                                 51.099,
                                 53.66 -
                                 53.68
2023-4               2-7-23      137.10 -
                                 137.15
2023-5               3-7-23      95.07
2023-6               3-21-23     112.24
2023-7               3-21-23     51.078,
                                 53.66
2023-12              6-6-23      112.24
2023-13              6-6-23      118.05
2023-18              7-18-23     116.04
2023-19              8-1-23      51.050,
                                 51.095
2023-20              8-1-23      53.53
2023-22              8-19-23     Ch. 74, Sched. II
2023-23              10-17-23    132.05
2024-4               4-16-24     Ch. 152, App. 1
2024-6               4-16-24     151.069
2024-7               5-7-24      72.12
2024-8               5-7-24      51.062
2024-10              6-18-24     92.065,
                                 92.084
2024-16              8-20-24     53.29
2024-20              9-17-24     152.241
2024-21              9-17-24     152.027
2025-3               3-4-25      53.21
2025-4               3-4-25      Ch. 74, Sched. I
2025-7               5-6-25      34.003,
                                 34.004
2025-12              5-20-25     112.24
2025-13              6-3-25      51.076
2025-15              6-17-25     152.240
2025-20              8-5-25      32.42
2025-22              8-5-25      30.100
2025-27              9-2-25      95.05,
                                 151.062
2025-29              10-21-25    92.065,
                                 92.084
                                 35.01,
2025-30              12-2-25     35.02,
                                 35.12
2026-8               3-3-26      34.001
                                
 
